MC	 The process of understanding how an information system can support business needs, design the system, build it, and deliver it to users is the _____.	analysis phase of the SDLC	incorrect	object-oriented approach	incorrect	rule for creating a CASE tool	incorrect	systems development life cycle	correct	waterfall development methodology	incorrect	
MC	 The person that identifies opportunities for improvements and designs an information system to implement them is called a(n) _____.	computer programmer	incorrect	end-user	incorrect	systems analyst	correct	systems specialist	incorrect	technical writer	incorrect	
MC	 The primary goal of the systems analyst is to _____.	acquire a working tool	incorrect	create a wonderful system	incorrect	create value for the organization	correct	establish the phases of the SDLC	incorrect	identify opportunities for improvement	incorrect	
MC	 Developing an information system is similar to building a house because you have to	start with a basic idea of what is needed	incorrect	create simple drawings of what is needed and allow the customer to provide feedback	incorrect	develop a detailed set of blueprints	incorrect	actually build the project, often with some changes directed by the customer	incorrect	all of the above	correct	
MC	 The four phases of the Systems Development Life Cycle are _____.	analysis, gathering, modeling, and diagramming	incorrect	construction, installation, testing, and converting	incorrect	initiating, planning, controlling, and implementing	incorrect	planning, analysis, design, and implementation	correct	system request, feasibility, staffing, and construction	incorrect	
MC	 Understanding why an information system should be built and determining how the project team will build it is part of the _____ phase of the SDLC.	analysis	incorrect	system request	incorrect	gathering	incorrect	initiating	incorrect	planning	correct	
MC	 The _____ is generated by the department or person that has an idea for a new information system.	economic feasibility analysis	incorrect	requirements document	incorrect	project charter	incorrect	system request	correct	project plan	incorrect	
MC	 The project sponsor is the _____.	lead systems analyst on the project team	incorrect	person or department that requested the system	correct	lead computer programmer charged with writing the code for the system	incorrect	project team leader in charge of developing the system	incorrect	any of these choices may fill the role of the project sponsor	incorrect	
MC	 Feasibility analysis examines several questions, including “_____?”	Can it be built (technical feasibility)	correct	Do we have the right people to build it (organizational feasibility)	incorrect	If we build it, can our computers handle the load (operational feasibility)	incorrect	Can we get afford it (economic feasibility)	incorrect	all of these	incorrect	
MC	 The project plan is the document that is used to _____.	describe how the project team will go about developing the proposed system	correct	outline the tasks to be addressed in developing the proposed system and develop a time estimate for each task	incorrect	outline the technical, economic, and organizational feasibility of the proposed system	incorrect	summarize the business need and explain how the proposed system supports that need and creates value	incorrect	all of these	incorrect	
MC	 In which phase of the SDLC is the project plan developed?	analysis	incorrect	design	incorrect	implementation	incorrect	planning	correct	reconstruction	incorrect	
MC	 In which phase of the SDLC is the system proposal developed?	analysis	correct	design	incorrect	implementation	incorrect	planning	incorrect	system delivery	incorrect	
MC	 The analysis phase of the SDLC answers which questions?	Who will create the system and when will it be used?	incorrect	Who will the system be for, what the system will do, when will it be used, and where will it be used?	correct	Why build the system, what the system will be, and how the system will work?	incorrect	Why build the system, who will the system be for, when will it be used, and how the system will work?	incorrect	Why build the system, who will the system be for, when will it be used, and where will it be used?	incorrect	
MC	 Deciding how the hardware, software, and network infrastructure will operate occurs during the _____ phase of the SDLC.	analysis	incorrect	design	correct	implementation	incorrect	planning	incorrect	strategy	incorrect	
MC	 In which phase of the SDLC is the system specification developed?	analysis	incorrect	design	correct	implementation	incorrect	planning	incorrect	system delivery	incorrect	
MC	 Interfaces (e.g., menus, reports, forms) are specified during the _____ phase of the SDLC.	analysis	incorrect	design	correct	implementation	incorrect	planning	incorrect	system delivery	incorrect	
MC	 The phase of the SDLC when the system is actually built or purchased is the _____.	analysis	incorrect	construction	incorrect	design	incorrect	implementation	correct	planning	incorrect	
MC	 A development methodology that focuses on the processes as the core of the system is said to be _____.	vacation-oriented	incorrect	structure-oriented	incorrect	process-centered	correct	object-oriented	incorrect	data-centered	incorrect	
MC	 The principal disadvantages(s) with the waterfall development methodology is (are) _____.	a long time elapses between completion of the system proposal and the delivery of the system	incorrect	if the team misses important requirements, expensive post-implementation programming may be needed	incorrect	the design must be completely specified on paper before programming begins	incorrect	all of these	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 _____ development is a structured design methodology that proceeds in a sequence from one phase to the next.	Parallel	incorrect	Phased	incorrect	Agile	incorrect	Rapid Application	incorrect	Waterfall	correct	
MC	 Any modern object-oriented approach to software development must be use case driven, ____________, and iterative and incremental.	user-centric	incorrect	architecture-centric	correct	requirements-driven	incorrect	model-driven	incorrect	object-centric	incorrect	
MC	 Iterative and incremental development means that	the team is using a prototyping methodology	incorrect	the system will be developed through versions	incorrect	the system will be developed in phases	incorrect	the system will undergo continuous testing and refinement	correct	the team is using an agile methodology	incorrect	
MC	 In the Enhanced Unified Process, the inception phase involves several workflows including _________.	analysis	incorrect	design	incorrect	implementation	incorrect	all of these	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 In the Enhanced Unified Process, the production phase involves several workflows including __________.	analysis	incorrect	design	incorrect	implementation	incorrect	all of these	incorrect	none of these	correct	
MC	 Overall, the consistent notation, integration among the diagramming techniques, and application of the diagrams across the entire development process makes ________ a powerful and flexible tool set for analysts and developers.	CASE	incorrect	UML	correct	DFDs	incorrect	EPCs	incorrect	Flow Charts	incorrect	
MC	 In SCRUM, teams organize themselves in a symbiotic manner and set their own goals for each ______________.	phase	incorrect	module	incorrect	week	incorrect	function	incorrect	sprint	correct	
MC	 SCRUM belongs to the category of system development methodologies:	agile development	correct	rapid application development	incorrect	structured design	incorrect	waterfall development	incorrect	rapid prototyping	incorrect	
TF	 The primary objective of the systems analyst is to create a wonderful system.	false
TF	 The planning phase is the fundamental process of understanding how an information system should be built and determining who on the project team will build it.	false
TF	 During the analysis phase of the SDLC the systems analyst will decide how the hardware, software and network infrastructure, user interface, forms and reports will be used.	false
TF	 The new information system is purchased or built during the implementation phase of the SDLC.	true
TF	 The waterfall development methodology derives its name from the salmon that swim up the waterfall against the current.	false
TF	 The infrastructure analyst is responsible for the design of the new business policies and processes.	false
TF	 The role of the project manager includes managing the team members, developing the project plan, assigning resources and serving as the primary point of contact for people outside the project team.	true
TF	 The role of the change management analyst includes ensuring that adequate documentation and support are available to the users.	true
TF	 The business analyst is responsible for ensuring that the project is completed on time and within budget and that the system delivers all benefits that were intended by the project sponsor.	false
TF	 The project manager develops ideas and suggestions for how to improve business processes, designs new business processes, and identifies the business value the new system will create.	false
TF	 Determining who will use the system, what the system will do, and where and when it will be used is performed during the analysis phase of the SDLC.	true
TF	 RAD (Rapid Application Development) adjusts the SDLC phases to get some of the system developed and into the hands of the users quickly.	true
TF	 Agile development is considered a special case of RAD approach to developing systems.	false
TF	 Phased development is considered a special case of RAD approach to developing systems.	true
TF	 Kim repeatedly performs the analysis, design, and implementation phases concurrently in a cycle until the system is completed. She then goes back and from scratch does a thorough design and implementation to complete the project. She is following a throwaway prototype methodology.	true
TF	 Throwaway prototyping balances the benefits of well-thought-out analysis and design phases with the advantages of using prototypes to refine key issues before the system is built.	true
TF	 The creation of a design prototype that is not a working information system, but represents a part of the system that needs additional refinement happens with the prototyping methodology.	false
TF	 Parallel development relies on only one iteration of the analysis phase.	true
TF	 A local retailer has hired Geneva and Sydney to develop his new information system. He is not sure what type of system he wants, but it must be completed in four months and he needs to know regularly that the project is on schedule. Geneva and Sydney should use the Waterfall Development methodology for constructing the system.	false
TF	 The primary advantage of the Waterfall Development methodology is requirements are completely specified and held relatively constant prior to programming.	true
TF	 Extreme programming is ideal for developing large mission-critical applications.	false
TF	 An analyst with business skills that understands the business issues surrounding a system is commonly called a project manager.	false
TF	 An analyst that focuses on the IS issues in a system, and who represents the interests of the IS department is called a systems analyst.	true
TF	 The analyst that develops ideas and suggestions to improve the application of information technology is commonly called a systems analyst.	true
TF	 An analyst that focuses on the technical issues of the organization (hardware, software, databases and networks) is commonly called a change management analyst.	false
TF	 Scott has been assigned to focus on the users during the upcoming information systems installation. Scott will provide user training and documentation. His role is to serve as a change management analyst.	true
TF	 Michelle has been assigned the task of completing the project in a timely manner and within budget. Her project team role is infrastructure analyst.	false
TF	 Systems analysts Lori and Mark are employed by the local hospital. They have been assigned to develop a very complex patient monitoring system for the cardio-care unit using a new display technology. Throwaway prototyping is a very suitable methodology for this project. 	true
TF	 Agile development methodology aims at eliminating the modeling and documentation overhead in IS projects, while emphasizing simple, iterative application development.	true
TF	 Extreme programming is founded on core principles such as communication, simplicity, feedback, and courage	true
TF	 In extreme programming programmers pair up to write the code.	true
TF	 Jim Smith is a project manager in the IS department of an insurance company and he just hired a group of four contractors to work on a project together with an in-house team of four full-time employees. He should use extreme programming as a methodology for the project.	false
TF	 You are carrying out a project that involves information systems for the operation of controls in a passenger jet craft. This is an ideal project for you to follow a throwaway prototyping methodology.	true
TF	 For complex systems, throwaway prototyping is not a suitable methodology, since it will lead to problems with maintaining the system. 	false
TF	 For complex systems, prototyping is not a suitable methodology, since it will lead to problems with maintaining the system.	true
TF	 For urgent projects, it is a good idea to use a prototyping methodology.	true
TF	 A project manager most likely would not have worked as a systems analyst in the past, since project management career track is independent of the system analyst’s career track.	false
TF	 Project team members focus on getting the project done, leaving change management to the business managers. 	false
TF	 The business analyst serves as the primary contact point with the project.	false
TF	 The Unified Process is not use-case driven.	false
TF	 Implementation is a phase in the Unified Process.	false
TF	 Project management is a supporting workflow within the Unified Process.	true
TF	 The Enhanced Unified Process goes beyond building the system and includes maintaining the system.	true
TF	 The environment workflow in the Unified Process is designed to deal with the organizational and policy issues the project faces within the organizational environment.	false
TF	 One of the criticisms of the Unified Process is that if fails to deal with the system after it has been delivered.	true
TF	 Under the Unified Process, the Configuration and Change Management workflow includes risk management and scope management, among several other activities.	false
TF	 Under the Unified Process, the Project Management workflow includes risk management and scope management, among several other activities.	true
TF	 The business modeling workflow uncovers problems and identifies potential projects.	true
TF	 In the Unified Process, the analysis phase follows requirements.	false
TF	 In the Unifies Process, analysis is a workflow, not a phase.	true
TF	 In the Enhanced Unified Process, the design and implementation workflows are the primary focus of the production phase.	false
TF	 In the Enhanced Unified Process, the production phase focuses exclusively on supporting workflows.	true
TF	 In the Unified Process, the implementation phase focuses on the deployment workflow.	false
TF	 The vision document is a deliverable in the inception phase.	true
TF	 The Unified Modeling Language is a collection of terms and diagrams designed to be used in data-oriented software projects.	false
TF	 The Unified Modeling Language is a collection of terms and diagrams designed to be used in object-oriented software projects	true
TF	 The Unified Modeling Language is a collection of terms and diagrams designed to be used in process-oriented software projects	false
TF	 In the UML, the Deployment Diagram is a behavioral diagram that illustrates the dynamic interaction of the system with its environment.	false
TF	 In the UML, the Activity Diagram illustrates all the interactions between the system and its environment.	false
TF	 In the UML, the Use Case Diagram illustrates all the interactions between the system and its environment	true
TF	 In the UML, the Class Diagram is an example of a structure diagram.	true
TF	 In the UML, the Use Case Diagram is an example of structure diagram.	false
TF	 Architecture Centric development requires functional (also known as external) diagrams in addition to structure and behavioral diagrams; however, the UML only has structure and behavioral diagrams.	true
TF	 SCRUM is a type of agile development methodology.	true
TF	 SCRUM has a designated team leader to lead the system development.	false
TF	 It is questionable whether Scrum can scale up to develop very large, mission-critical systems.	true
SR	 Indicate the four phases of the waterfall approach and mention its advantages and disadvantages.	Waterfall is a sequential process that has each of the four phases (planning, analysis, design, and implementation) completed following the previous one. The two advantages are that requirements are identified long before programming and changes are minimized. The two disadvantages are an extensive paper trail and the time that passes from initial proposal and system completion.
SR	 Briefly discuss the RAD methodology and mention its advantages and disadvantages.	The RAD methodologies attempt to address the weaknesses of the structured design methodologies by adjusting the phases of the SDLC to get parts of the system completed and in the hands of the users quickly. Analysis, design, and implementation are all speeded up. The advantages include the speed and quality of systems development, while the key disadvantage is the need to manage user expectations.
SR	 Explain the idea of prototyping and indicate when prototyping is appropriate.	Prototyping performs the analysis, design, and implementation phases of the SDLC concurrently and cyclically until the system is completed. This approach allows the analyst to quickly refine the user-requirements and to quickly get a system in the hands of the users (as long as it’s not a large, complex application that many people need to use).
SR	 Explain the idea behind throw-away prototyping? When is it appropriate?	Throw-away prototyping is done at a different point in the SDLC than prototyping. It is done after a fairly thorough analysis phase has determined the user requirements, but when various technical issues may need to be solved or some of the user requirements may still be unclear. The design prototype is not a working system, just part of it. Thus, when the prototype is finished, there is not a complete system to deliver to the users. It may take longer to develop systems using throwaway prototyping. But it is suitable in projects where the requirements and/or technology issues are not well understood after the analysis phase. Projects that need to deliver reliable systems often use the throwaway prototyping technique.
SR	 Describes the roles of and activities performed by the business analyst and system analyst. 	A BUSINESS ANALYST identifies the business value that a system will create, develops ideas and suggestions that improve the business process, and designs new processes and policies. Work experience of a business analyst is probably in the functional field or application, such as accounting, marketing or production management.
SR	 Describes the roles of and activities performed by the infrastructure and change management analysts. 	An INFRASTRUCTURE ANALYST ensures the new system conforms to organizational standards and identifies infrastructure changes needed (to the network, database, hardware and software). Work experience of an infrastructure analyst is probably in networking, database administration, or various hardware or software systems.
SR	 Explain the role of a project manager in an IS project. 	The project manager is responsible for completing the project on-time and within budget. He/she is also responsible for ensuring that the completed system delivers all the benefits that were originally intended by the project sponsor. Project manager manages team members, develops work plan, assigns resources and is the primary point of contact for the project. He/she would have worked as a systems analyst for a significant amount of time prior to becoming the project manager.
SR	 Briefly summarize the purpose of the planning phase in SDLC. Explain why it exists and what it contributes to the completion of the system.	The purpose of the planning phase is to determine if the system request will provide value to the organization and to prepare a plan for completing the project. The Planning Phase exists so that the IS department and the project sponsors/users can develop an initial vision of the new system, establish its primary objectives, and perform a preliminary feasibility study that will evaluate the project's value to the organization and its estimated costs. With this information the organization's management can objectively assess whether the project has merit. The work done in this phase helps establish the project scope, define objectives and expectations, develop a plan for the project, and determine if the project warrants committing additional resources to its completion.
SR	 Briefly summarize the purpose of the analysis phase in SDLC. Explain why it exists and what it contributes to the completion of the system.	The purpose of the analysis phase is to determine the business needs of the new system and to develop a preliminary concept for the new system. The Analysis Phase exists in order to assure that the problems being experienced by the business unit are well understood and will be resolved through the features and functionality of the proposed system. The Analysis Phase serves to gather sufficient information to assure that the system will correct the actual problems of the organizational unit. System objectives will be clarified during this phase, and user and business requirements will be defined in detail.
SR	 Briefly summarize the purpose of the design phase in SDLC. Explain why it exists and what it contributes to the completion of the system.	The purpose of the design phase is to determine how technology will be used to fulfill the business needs defined in the Analysis phase. Design decision will be made regarding the technology infrastructure, user interface, file and database, and program components of the new system. These system elements must be designed prior to construction so that the system will meet user and business needs upon implementation.
SR	 Briefly summarize the purpose of the implementation phase in SDLC. Explain why it exists and what it contributes to the completion of the system.	The purpose of the implementation phase is to develop a production version of the system. The system components that were outlined in the design phase are created using the target technology, tested, and then introduced to the end users. This phase brings all the previous ideas into fruition as an actual working system is put into production in the organization.
SR	 Briefly describe the idea behind structured design approach to systems development.	Structured design represents a number of methodologies that adopt a formal, step-by-step approach for proceeding through the SDLC. These methodologies emphasize carefully determining user requirements on paper prior to actual construction of the system. Waterfall development model and parallel development model are examples of structured design.
SR	 Briefly describe the idea behind the RAD approach to systems development.	The RAD (Rapid Application Development) methodologies attempt to accelerate the process of developing systems, and also utilize a variety of new tools and techniques that help avoid the painstaking preparation of paper-based specifications. Most RAD methodologies recommend the usage of special tools such as CASE tools and special techniques such as joint application development (JAD) sessions. Such tools and techniques improve the speed and quality of systems development. However, managing user expectations of what is possible and what is not becomes difficult in RAD methodologies. Phased development, prototyping and throwaway prototyping are examples of RAD methodology.
SR	 Briefly summarize the role and contribution of the Business Analyst, Systems Analyst, Infrastructure Analyst, Change Management Analyst, and Project Manager on a systems development project team.	The Business Analyst role exists to assure that the interests of the end users and project sponsor are represented on the project team. The Systems Analyst role exists to assure that the available information technology is applied appropriately to the users/sponsors business needs. The Infrastructure Analyst role exists to deal with technical concerns about the new systems hardware, software, and networking components. The Change Management Analyst role exists to attend to the process of assimilating the new system in the organization. The Project Manager role exists to ensure timely completion of the project, fulfillment of user/sponsor requirements, and appropriate usage of project resources.
SR	 Briefly explain the idea behind extreme programming (XP).	In XP, developers not only accept change but embrace change. They provide quick feedback to the end-users on a continuous basis, and follow the KISS principle for system development. Developers make incremental changes as the system grows in functionality and size. Continuous testing, programming in pairs by developers and close interactions with end users are hallmarks of the XP approach. XP relies on refactoring, which is a disciplined way to keep the code simple.
SR	 Briefly compare and contrasts the roles and responsibilities of the project manager and the business analyst.	The project manager leads the project team; the business analyst is a team member. The project manager is responsible for overall project success; the business analyst is responsible for making sure the interests of the users and sponsor are met. The project manager’s primary focus is on the project; the business analyst’s primary focus is on the business. The project manager oversees technical and business people on the project team and does not necessarily have to be a technical wizard or an expert in the business, but it helps if he/she is proficient at both; the business analysts is the business expert on the team charged with making sure the technology delivers business value and does not have to be a technical wizard, but it helps if he/she is proficient with technology.
SR	 Briefly explain what the creators of the Unified Modeling Language (UML) mean by use-case driven, architecture centric, and iterative and incremental.	USE-CASE DRIVEN means that use cases are the primary tools for modeling the behavior of the system. A use case is a description of the interaction between the system and the user as the user seeks to accomplish a particular goal. Rather than decomposing processes into sub-processes, and sub-processes into sub-sub-processes, etc., etc., . . . , as is done in traditional structural analysis, use cases allow the analyst to focus on one process at a time without losing track of how all the use cases are interrelated.
SR	 Briefly describe the Unified Process (UP).	The UP is used for systems development and relies on a two-dimensional process of phases and workflows. The phases are inception, elaboration, construction, and transition. The phases measure how far along the project is. The workflows include business modeling, requirements, analysis, design, implementation, test, deployment, configuration and change management, project management, and environment. Each phase can be further broken down into iterations as needed. The key idea is that the traditional phases (planning, analysis, design, and implementation) are actually workflows, not phases. Along with other workflows, in the UP the traditional SDLC phases are activities carried out iteratively and incrementally throughout the project. Each iteration carries out a variety of workflows in parallel, emphasizing some workflows over others depending on how far along the project is.
SR	 Briefly describe the phases of the Unified Process.	The UP phases are inception, elaboration, construction, and transition.
SR	 Briefly explain why the Unified Process (UP) was modified.	The UP was modified to account for staffing issues, operational issues after deployment, and integration (or cross-project) issues. The Extended UP recognizes a phase after deployment. This is the Production Phase. In addition, two workflows were added. They are the operations and support workflow and the infrastructure management workflow. Lastly, some of the existing workflows were modified to account for emerging standards (OPEN and the OO Software Process).
SR	 Briefly describe the Unified Modeling Language (UML).	The objective of the UML was to provide a common vocabulary of terms and diagramming techniques rich enough to model any systems development project. Version 2.0 of the UML defines a set of fourteen diagramming techniques. The six structure diagrams are class, object, package, deployment, component, and composite structure diagrams. The eight behavior modeling diagrams are activity, sequence, communication, interaction overview, timing, behavior state machine, protocol state machine, and use-case diagrams. Overall, the consistent notation, integration among the diagramming techniques, and application of the diagrams across the entire development process makes the UML a powerful and flexible language for analysts and developers.
SR	 Briefly describe the SCRUM agile development methodology.	Scrum development focuses on a few key practices. First, teams are self-organized and self-directed. Unlike other approaches, Scrum teams do not have a designated team leader. Instead, teams organize themselves in a symbiotic manner and set their own goals for each sprint (iteration). Second, once a sprint has begun, Scrum teams do not consider any additional requirements. Any new requirements that are uncovered are placed on a backlog of requirements that still need to be addressed. Third, at the beginning of every workday, a Scrum meeting takes place. Fourth, at the end of each sprint, the team demonstrates the software to the client. Based on the results of the sprint, a new plan is begun for the next sprint. One of the major criticisms of Scrum, like all agile methodologies, is that it is questionable whether Scrum can scale up to develop very large, mission-critical systems. A typical Scrum team size is no more than seven members.
MC	 The person who identifies the business value that can be gained from using information technology is called the _____.	manager	incorrect	project sponsor	correct	staff member	incorrect	system analyst	incorrect	system request	incorrect	
MC	 In order to approve a system request, the approval committee must know	all of the details of the ultimate system to be developed	incorrect	the high level functionality of the system	correct	what the screens and reports will look like in the final system	incorrect	who the end users of the system will be and exactly how they will use it in their jobs	incorrect	all of these	incorrect	
MC	 _____ value can be quantified during the project initiation phase.	Expected	incorrect	Tangible	correct	Intangible	incorrect	Real	incorrect	Salvage	incorrect	
MC	 _____ is the process of examining the technical, economic, and organizational pros and cons of developing a new system.	Committee approval	incorrect	Feasibility analysis	correct	Functionality determination	incorrect	Risk analysis	incorrect	System request	incorrect	
MC	 Most system requests include all of the following except _____.	business need	incorrect	business requirements	incorrect	project sponsor	incorrect	project manager	correct	business value	incorrect	
MC	 The four elements commonly found on a system request are _____.	economic, organizational, technical, and operational feasibility	incorrect	project sponsor, business need, business requirements, and business value	correct	risk analysis, familiarity, project size, and cost-benefit analysis	incorrect	training, software, installation, and equipment	incorrect	upgrades, licensing fees, repairs, and charges	incorrect	
MC	 Suppose a proposed new financial reporting system for the AMF Biotech Corporation must be completed by the start of the next fiscal year in order to comply with new government regulations. This information should be included as part of the ____________ section of the system request.	business need	incorrect	business value	incorrect	business requirements	incorrect	special issues or constraints	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Explaining “the business capabilities of the information system” is written in the _____ section of the system request.	business need	incorrect	business value	incorrect	business requirements	correct	project need	incorrect	special issues	incorrect	
MC	 Feasibility analysis may be defined as a(n)_____.	assessment of ability of the ultimate users of the system to accept the system and incorporate it into the ongoing operations of the organization	incorrect	determination of the extent to which the system can be technically designed, developed, and installed	incorrect	guide to determining whether to proceed with a project	correct	identification of only the costs and benefits associated with the project	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following factors could be included in a technical risk assessment?	Cost of a new Web server	incorrect	Cost of hiring a Webmaster	incorrect	No previous experience with Java within the IS department	correct	Some fear of job loss among order entry department personnel	incorrect	all of these	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following factors would tend to increase the technical risk of a project?	familiarity with the technology	incorrect	large project size	correct	creating an application that is familiar to the users and analysts	incorrect	small project size	incorrect	the number of other applications under development in the firm	incorrect	
MC	 _____ feasibility is determined by identifying costs and benefits associated with the system.	Economic	correct	Functional	incorrect	Organizational	incorrect	Intangible	incorrect	Technical	incorrect	
MC	 Examples of development costs include all EXCEPT _____.	consultant fees	incorrect	hardware expenses	incorrect	salaries for the project team	incorrect	software licensing fees	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Operational costs that are examined during feasibility analysis include _____.	data conversion cost	incorrect	development training	incorrect	user training	incorrect	equipment upgrades	correct	initial consultant fees	incorrect	
MC	 The calculation that measures the amount of money an organization receives in return for the money it spends is called the _____.	cash flow	incorrect	net present value	incorrect	total investment	incorrect	tangible costs	incorrect	return on investment	correct	
MC	 The level of acceptance by the users of a system and the extent to which the new system will be incorporated into the operations of the organization are expressed in the _____ feasibility.	economic	incorrect	familiarity	incorrect	functional	incorrect	organizational	correct	technical	incorrect	
MC	 The project champion is a(n)_____.	high-level IS executive who is usually but not always the project sponsor who initiated the system request	incorrect	mid-level IS manager who has the responsibility of controlling and directing the development process	incorrect	high-level non-IS executive who is usually but not always the project sponsor who initiated the system request	correct	senior member of the user group who participated in the RAD sessions	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Peter is the vice president of accounting and finance. For the past year he has solely provided the resources necessary to get the just-in-time accounting system through the planning and analysis phases of the SDLC. Other managers have openly stated that the JIT system is not worth the investment. The SEC has just placed Peter under investigation for insider trading and the board has asked him to resign. This project is failing _____ feasibility analysis.	organizational	correct	champion	incorrect	functional	incorrect	economic	incorrect	technical	incorrect	
MC	 If end users feel fearful or threatened by a proposed new system, this factor should be included as a part of the _____.	economic feasibility assessment	incorrect	organizational feasibility assessment	correct	system proposal	incorrect	system request	incorrect	technical feasibility assessment	incorrect	
MC	 _____ is the process of planning and controlling the development of a system within a specified time frame at a minimum cost with the right functionality.	Project management	correct	Semantic timeline	incorrect	Task identification	incorrect	Time estimation	incorrect	Work plan	incorrect	
MC	 The most significant challenge to project managers is _____.	lack of project management training	incorrect	no one really understands how to manage a complex systems development project	incorrect	the lack of tools that can assist in controlling project progress	incorrect	unrealistic schedule demands by project sponsors	correct	all of these	incorrect	
MC	 A critical success factor for project management is to _____.	create a work plan	incorrect	follow the three steps of project management	incorrect	identify most project tasks	incorrect	manage the hundreds of tasks	incorrect	start with a realistic assessment of the work	correct	
MC	 The three steps of project management are _____.	controlling the project, directing the project, and creating the work plan	incorrect	creating the work plan, staffing the project, and controlling and directing the project	correct	directing the project, creating the work plan, and naming the tasks	incorrect	naming the tasks, creating the work plan, and completing the deliverables	incorrect	setting the start date, estimating the time, and reading the actual time	incorrect	
MC	 The _____ is a dynamic schedule that logs and monitors all of the tasks that need to be accomplished for the length of the project.	margin of error	incorrect	project manager	incorrect	project objective	incorrect	timebox	incorrect	work plan	correct	
MC	 Diane needs to create a work plan for an upcoming systems project. She must first _____.	estimate the hours and request deliverables	incorrect	identify the tasks and estimate the time needed to complete them	correct	initiate the project and create the project management assessment	incorrect	make tradeoffs and set conservative numbers	incorrect	timebox the completion date	incorrect	
MC	 To identify the tasks for a work plan the project manager can _____.	control and direct the project	incorrect	estimate the size, staff the project, and remember technical skills	incorrect	establish a possible reporting structure	incorrect	list the four phases of the SDLC and the steps that occur in each	correct	set conservative numbers for the project software	incorrect	
MC	 Project managers can develop task lists for a project with the help of _____.	established methodologies	correct	system proposals	incorrect	system requests	incorrect	user application hardware	incorrect	user requirements	incorrect	
MC	 The process of assigning values for the time and effort needed to perform a system project is called _____.	analysis	incorrect	estimation	correct	identifying	incorrect	planning	incorrect	preparation	incorrect	
MC	 Kathryn has little experience estimating the time it will take to complete a systems project. She has just completed the planning phase of the project. What method should she use to estimate the time required to build the system?	adjusted project complexity	incorrect	function points	incorrect	industry standards	correct	Microsoft Project	incorrect	more complex approach	incorrect	
MC	 Adding people to a project team in order to speed up total development time _____.	is a standard task in timeboxing	incorrect	is a useful way to meet a tight deadline	incorrect	may actually increase total development time	correct	simplifies communication within the team	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Traditional work breakdown structures tend to	focus on the design of the system as oppose to the needs of the current phase and iteration	incorrect	force too many levels of detail early on for large project and they tend to allow too few level of detail for small projects	incorrect	be too specific for the project and difficult to compare across projects	incorrect	all of these	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Unlike traditional work breakdown structures (WBS), evolutionary WBSs are	organized in a standard manner across all projects	incorrect	created in an iterative and incremental manner	incorrect	designed so one can compare the current project to past projects	incorrect	all of these	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Staffing plan that lists the roles and the proposed reporting structure that are required for the project. Typically, a project will have one _____________, who oversees the overall progress of the development effort, with the core of the team comprising the various types of analysts.	team lead	incorrect	functional lead	incorrect	technical lead	incorrect	project manager	correct	business analyst	incorrect	
MC	 Demarco and Lister identify five characteristics of a jelled team. Which one is not the characteristics of a jelled team:	Jelled teams have a very low turnover during a project	incorrect	Jelled teams have a strong sense of identity	incorrect	The strong sense of identity tends to lead the team into feeling a sense of eliteness	incorrect	during the development process, jelled teams feel that the team owns the information system being developed and not any one individual member	incorrect	They always complete their work on time	correct	
MC	 The central component of any CASE tool is the ____________,	CASE repository	correct	files	incorrect	XML/HTML files	incorrect	databases	incorrect	object persistency	incorrect	
MC	 Use-case points is a project effort estimation approach based on unique features of _______ and object orientation.	functions	incorrect	classes	incorrect	objects	incorrect	projects	incorrect	use cases	correct	
MC	 For use-case point estimation purposes, actors can be classified as simple, __________, or complex.	difficult	incorrect	medium	incorrect	average	correct	common	incorrect	feasible	incorrect	
MC	 Use-case point–based estimation also has a set of factors that are used to adjust the use-case point value. Which one list in the following is Not one of the technical factors:	Whether the system is going to be a distributed system	incorrect	The importance of customer service	correct	The efficiency level of the end user using the system	incorrect	The complexity of the internal processing of the system	incorrect	The importance of code reuse	incorrect	
TF	 Familiarity with the application and technology are major factors considered under economic feasibility.	false
TF	 Cost benefit analysis identifies the financial costs and benefits associated with a systems project.	true
TF	 To identify the costs and benefits related to the computer technology for a project the systems analyst should rely on the business users.	false
TF	 Happy customers is a tangible cost that can be included in a cost-benefit analysis.	false
TF	 A 20% increase in sales volume is a tangible benefit that can be included in a cost-benefit analysis.	true
TF	 A limitation of a formal cost-benefits analysis is that it contains the costs and benefits for just one year.	false
TF	 A high return on investment (ROI) results when benefits far outweigh the cost of a new project or information system.	true
TF	 How well a system is accepted by the users and incorporated into the ongoing operations of the business is defined in the technical feasibility.	false
TF	 Project size is an important consideration in technical feasibility. Larger projects create more risk, both because they are more complicated to manage and because there is a greater chance that some important system requirements will be overlooked or misunderstood.	true
TF	 Economic feasibility includes an assessment of financial impact in four categories: (1) development costs, (2) operational costs, (3) tangible benefits, and (4) intangible costs and benefits.	true
TF	 The return on investment (ROI) should be used as the sole indicator of a project’s worth because it considers the end points of the investment, not the cash flow in between.	false
TF	 User participation should be promoted throughout the development process to make sure that the final system will be accepted and used.	true
TF	 Economic feasibility is determined by identifying costs and benefits associated with the system, assigning values to them, and then calculating the cash flow and return on investment for the project.	true
TF	 The champion is a high-level IS executive who initiates the system request and supports the project by providing time, resources, and political support within the organization by communicating the importance of the system to other organizational decision makers.	false
TF	 Economic feasibility focuses on whether the system can be built by examining the risks associated with the users’ and analysts’ familiarity with the application, familiarity with the technology, and project size.	false
TF	 It is not necessary to assign dollar values to intangible costs and benefits; it is almost impossible to come up with reasonable numbers for all of the costs and benefits that haven’t happened yet.	false
TF	 Project initiation begins when the project sponsor identifies business value that can be gained by using information technology.	true
TF	 System requests often include the project team members including the project manager and the analysts.	false
TF	 A feasibility analysis includes whether the project has been permitted by the CIO	false
TF	 The feasibility analysis helps the approval committee determine whether or not to proceed with a project.	true
TF	 Technical feasibility focuses on whether the system can be built by examining the risks associated with the application.	true
TF	 Lauren, a systems analyst, is concerned that she and the end-users at her company do not have experience with a new scanner technology that will soon be implemented. This identified risk falls under economic feasibility.	false
TF	 Nicole has identified development and operational costs for a soon-to-be built information system. Her findings will be listed under economic feasibility in the analysis report.	true
TF	 Development costs that are examined during feasibility analysis include costs for software licenses and software upgrades.	false
TF	 Natalie has been asked by her project manager to list the possible intangible benefits for a new system. Her list will include reduced expenses for the company.	false
TF	 ROI calculations do not consider the present value of future money.	true
TF	 Organizational feasibility can be evaluated by conducting a stakeholder analysis.	true
TF	 Kelly Smith, the vice president of marketing, has provided resources and political support for the new production management information system. She has acted as the project manager for the project.	false
TF	 The person or group that funds a project and enthusiastically promotes the project throughout the organization is the project champion.	true
TF	 The organizational management of a business is involved in hands-on activities related to the project.	false
TF	 During organizational feasibility analysis the system users are the stakeholders that are responsible for providing enough budget and promoting the project.	false
TF	 System users are stakeholders who perform hands-on activities related to the project.	true
TF	 Present value calculation takes inflation and time into account.	true
TF	 The formula for net present value (NPV) is the ratio of (Total benefits – Total Costs) to Total Costs.	false
TF	 Calculating the break-even point helps in understanding how long it will take before the system creates real value for the organization.	true
TF	 Determining whether the new system will be compatible with the existing technology that already exists in the organization is part of the organizational feasibility study.	false
TF	 Project management is the process of planning and controlling the development of a system within a specified time frame at a minimum cost with the right functionality.	true
TF	 When planning a systems project, overly optimistic timetables are the cause of project completion delays.	true
TF	 Creating a work plan requires three steps: identify the tasks that need to be accomplished, estimate the time that it will take to complete the tasks, and record the task completion time in a Gantt chart.	false
TF	 When estimating project time schedules using industry standards for a systems project, the following values are acceptable: 15% for planning, 25% for analysis, 50% for design, and 10% for implementation.	false
TF	 Using typical industry standards for estimating project time schedules, the estimated analysis phase would be 10 person-months for a systems project where the planning phase was completed in 7.5 person-months.	true
TF	 To complete a 20 person-month project in 10 months, a team should have 4 full-time staff members assigned to the project.	false
TF	 Project management is the second major component of the planning phase of the systems development life cycle (SDLC), and it includes three steps: creating the work plan, staffing the project, and controlling and directing the project.	true
TF	 The work plan records and keeps track of all of the tasks that need to be accomplished over the life of the project, listing each task, along with important information about it, such as when it needs to be completed, the person assigned to do the work, and any deliverables that will result.	true
TF	 It is not wise to identify tasks for a current project using existing methodology, because methodologies that have been used by an organization for other projects probably will not work for this project without extensive changes.	false
TF	 Adding staff to a project to shorten the project’s length is usually a wise move, because adding staff normally translates into increased productivity.	false
TF	 Timeboxing is a popular technique which sets a fixed deadline for a project and delivers the system by that deadline no matter what, even if functionality needs to be reduced.	true
TF	 A key factor in staffing a project involves motivating people to meet the project’s objectives, and the most effective way to do this is through the use of money and bonuses.	false
TF	 Estimates from the planning stage will need to be refined as the project progresses, because it is virtually impossible to develop an exact assessment of the project’s schedule before the analysis and design phases are conducted.	true
TF	 Benefits to using computer-aided software engineering (CASE) include faster task completion and alteration, centralized development information, and illustration of information through diagrams.	true
TF	 Scope creep is only a minor factor in projects running over schedule, and every effort should be made to incorporate any changes into the present system if they would truly be beneficial.	false
TF	 Sergei, the project manager, is worried about completing the project on time. To increase the productivity of his 15-person team he should create subteams with no more than 10 people on a subteam.	true
TF	 The project team has just determined that the deadline for completion will not be met. In order to deliver a high quality system on schedule, the team has requested that the features be prioritized and that a fixed deadline be imposed for the project. This technique is referred to as SDLC methodology.	false
TF	 Timeboxing is a time-oriented approach to project development.	true
TF	 Matching people’s skills with the needs of the project, motivating employees, and minimizing personnel conflict are all part of the staffing process.	true
TF	 The project charter describes the qualifications of the people who will work on a project and the reporting structure of the project team.	false
TF	 The document that describes the project’s objectives and rules is called the project charter.	true
TF	 Lauren, a systems analyst, has excellent interpersonal skills. To take advantage of her skills, the functional lead of the project should assign her to program in Java and C++.	false
TF	 A functional lead manages a group of programmers and technical staff members.	false
TF	 A technical lead manages a group of analysts.	false
TF	 Christine does not have the skills that her project manager feels are necessary and no money has been budgeted for outside consultants. Mentoring is a good option to improve Christine’s skills in this situation.	true
TF	 Daniel has just been assigned as the project manager. To motivate his team properly, Daniel’s first step is to award bonuses to team members.	false
TF	 A highly effective motivational technique for technical staff is to provide recognition for each team member's accomplishments.	true
TF	 A good technique to help minimize conflict among team members is to hold team members accountable for their tasks.	true
TF	 According to leading experts in software development, the margin of error when estimating project costs is 100% and the margin of error in project scheduling time is 25%.	true
TF	 CASE tool is a popular graphic depiction of the work plan that lists project tasks along a y-axis, time along an x-axis, and uses shaded boxes to represent tasks.	false
TF	 PERT chart can be used to track the tasks of a project when task time estimates are fairly uncertain.	true
TF	 Integrated CASE tools are used to support tasks that happen throughout the SDLC.	true
TF	 Jim Smith, the project manager for a high-profile project, has permitted the users to add additional features to the systems project. The schedule and costs are now running over. This project suffers from poor standards.	false
TF	 The underlying cause of many missed project deadlines is scope creep.	true
TF	 The most common reason for schedule and cost overruns that surface after the project is underway is scope creep.	true
TF	 The traditional work breakdown structure approach is very useful when the requirements of the system are not well understood.	false
TF	 The evolutionary work breakdown structure approach is very useful when the requirements of the system are not well understood.	true
TF	 The traditional work breakdown structure makes it easy to compare the current project with past projects.	false
TF	 The evolutionary work breakdown structure makes it easy to compare the current project with past project	true
TF	 From a practical point of view, to estimate effort using use-case points, the use cases and the class diagrams must have been created.	false
TF	 For use-case point estimation purposes, actors/use cases can be classified as simple, common, or complex.	false
TF	 The network diagram is a graphical way that lays out the project tasks in a flowchart to look at project workplan information.	true
TF	 Network diagrams are the best way to communicate tasks dependencies because they lay out the tasks in the order in which they need to be completed.	true
TF	 The critical path in a network diagram is the shortest path from the project inception to completion.	false
TF	 The science (or art) of project management is in making trade-offs among three important concepts: the functionality of the system, the time to complete the project, and the reliability of the project.	false
TF	 The first step of timeboxing is set the date for system analysis.	false
TF	 In a jelled team, team members enjoy doing their work.	true.
TF	 Usually, a functional lead oversees the progress of a group of programmers and more technical staff members.	false
TF	 Typically, a project will have one project manager, who oversees the overall progress of the development effort.	true
TF	 Typically, a technical lead is usually assigned to manage a group of analysts.	false
TF	 Essentially a daily scrum meeting is a very short, typically 15 minutes.	true
TF	 Typically, the task of a daily scrum meeting is to find solutions for important development issues.	false
SR	 Economic feasibility includes an assessment of financial impacts in four categories. What are these four financial categories and how are values assigned to each?	The four financial categories of an economic feasibility are development costs, operational costs, tangible benefits, and intangible benefits and costs. Development costs are one-time-only costs that are incurred during the construction of the system, such as the salaries of the project team, and hardware and software expenses. Operational costs are the recurring variable costs that are required to operate the system for its lifetime. Tangible benefits are the revenues and cost savings that the system enables the organization to collect or avoid. Tangible benefits include items such as increased sales and reductions in staff. Intangible benefits and costs are difficult to put into hard numbers. Examples of intangibles include improved customer service and a decrease in goodwill.
SR	 Jane, the head nurse on the surgery recovery floor, is going to place a request for a system that will create a report from data already in the patient record system and print this report to printers located just outside each of 12 patient's rooms and the central nurses station. Jane feels that a graphical report that combines the patient record of pain and pain medication received is absolutely necessary for the doctors and nursing staff to make proper medical decisions concerning patient recovery. Nurses already record the date, time, and severity of pain each time the patient complains or notifies them of discomfort. The pharmacy nurse records the amount of pain medication administered to each patient immediately after administration. Jane feels that combining these two pieces of information will improve medical decision making and provide better care to the patient. In addition, this method will increase the accuracy of reporting and reduce cost. Assist Jane by completing a System Request.	
SR	 Jane, the head nurse on the surgery recovery floor, is going to place a request for a system that will create a report from data already in the patient record system. This report should be sent to new printers (cost per printer is approximately $2,000) located just outside each of 12 patient's rooms and the central nurse's station. Jane feels that a graphical report that combines the patient record of pain and pain medication received is absolutely necessary for the doctors and nursing staff to make proper medical decisions concerning patient recovery. Nurses already record the date, time, and severity of pain each time the patient complains or notifies them of discomfort. The pharmacy nurse records the amount of pain medication administered to each patient immediately after administration. Jane feels that combining these two pieces of information will improve medical decision making and provide better care to the patient. The IS manager has approved $50,000 for the development of the system and estimates that maintaining the system for the next five years will cost $2,000 per year. In addition, this method will increase the accuracy of reporting by 10% per year for three years and reduce pharmacy costs (cost of pain reducing drugs) by 15% in the first year of introduction. Current expenses credited to inaccurate data gathering are $100,000 per year. Pharmacy costs are currently $10 million.	The intangible benefits for the new system are “improved medical decision making” and “better care to the patient.”
SR	 Revenue estimates for Cloud Selection's new Internet music business were computed using three different methods. What is the purpose and value of performing so many computations in determining these estimates?	In this case, the new system under consideration was an entirely new line of business for the company - sales of product via the Internet. Because this is essentially a new business venture made possible by Internet technology, it was not a straightforward task to project expected revenues. None of the previous business models (such as the opening of a new store) really applied. Therefore, it was essential to use a variety of approaches to generate revenue estimates. A range of estimates could then be established; conservative projections would fall in the low end of the range, while optimistic estimates would fall in the high end of the range. There is far too much uncertainty in this situation to rely on one method of revenue estimation alone.
SR	 The feasibility study is performed during project initiation. How can this feasibility assessment be accurate so early in the project? Explain.	The feasibility assessment performed during project initiation is admittedly going to be imprecise. There will be a great deal of uncertainty about many of the issues included in the first feasibility study. It is essential, however, for the project team to address all the issues required in the feasibility study even at an early stage in the project. That way, the team becomes more familiar with the nuances of the specific project, and is alert to new information that will have an impact on the project's feasibility. The feasibility assessment should be modified throughout the project to ensure that new information is incorporated into the analysis as it becomes available. It is certainly possible that a system that once appeared feasible becomes infeasible at a later time because of new information that is discovered.
SR	 Assigning values to costs and benefits involves making some difficult predictions of the future. How can the project team improve the accuracy of these estimates?	There are several things that can improve the accuracy of cost and benefit estimates. Most importantly, the project team should contact those persons or groups who are most likely to have accurate information about the factor under study. For example, the organization's market researchers or a marketing research consulting firm should be contacted to provide sales projections rather than the project team developing its own. Another way to improve estimates is to keep detailed records about estimates made for previous projects. Those project estimates can be compared to 'what really happened,' and the estimating process can be improved by learning from previous successes and failures. A third way to improve estimates is to use a variety of approaches and assumptions in the estimating process. This can help the project team avoid the inadvertent omission of key factors in the analysis.
SR	 Compare and contrast the cash flow, return on investment, and net present value methods of assessing a project's economic feasibility.	All three methods require that initial and annual costs and benefits be projected for the expected life of the system (usually considered 3-5 years). In the Cash Flow method, all costs and benefits are totaled over the system's life, and the net benefits are computed. The higher the net benefit figure, the more desirable the project. The Return on Investment method divides the total net benefits over the system's life by the total costs of the system. This ratio of net benefits to total costs indicates a rough return on investment figure, and the higher the ratio, the more positive the project. The Net Present Value method discounts the initial and annual costs and benefits to their present value equivalents using a required rate of return factor, then compares the present value of total benefits to the present value of total costs. If this figure is zero or more, the project is considered viable. Although all three methods are based on the same cash inflow and outflow projections, the Cash Flow and Return on Investment methods do not consider the timing of the cash flows or the time value of money. Therefore, the Net Present Value method is preferred from a financial standpoint.
SR	 Explain the role and interests of the project champion, organizational management, and end users regarding a new system project. How will each impact the organizational feasibility of the project?	The project champion serves as a highly visible promoter of the system. The project champion plays an important role in generating excitement and interest in the system, and often smooths the way politically for the new system's introduction in the organization. There have been many instances of an otherwise viable systems development project being derailed due to the departure of the project champion from the organization. Organizational management has an interest in seeing that resources are used effectively in the project and that a successful system is produced. By showing support for the system, organizational management can help encourage the adoption of the new system upon implementation. Weak or inconsistent management support has contributed to the failure of many systems projects. End users are the recipients of the new system and will be most affected by it on a daily basis. If end users view the system as an improvement of their work life, they will support the new system. If end users are fearful or feel threatened by the new system, they will resist the new system. Two ways to gain end user support are to involve them in the development of the system, and to provide training and education that helps prepare them for the new work environment.
SR	 Why is it important for systems developers to consider the area of organizational politics when creating a new system?	It is likely that a new information system will create a change in the power structure of a firm. The text quotes Machiavelli about the difficulties that will be encountered when a “new order of things” is created, and that is certainly what a large number of new systems do in organizations. A systems developer should be aware of the changes that the system will cause in the organization and plan accordingly.
SR	 Explain different sections of a system request.	System request consists of the following sections
SR	 Explain the three different aspects of a feasibility analysis.	Feasibility analysis includes technical, economic and organizational feasibility. Technical feasibility answers the question “Can the organization build the system?” It considers issues such as organization’s familiarity with technology, familiarity with the application, project size and compatibility. Economic feasibility answers the question “Should the organization build the system?” It considers issues such as development costs, annual operating and support costs for the system, annual benefits and intangible costs and benefits. Finally, organizational feasibility addresses the question “If the system is built, will it be used effectively in the organization?” Organizational feasibility is often conducted by an analysis of the stakeholders
SR	 Identify the seven steps involved in conducting the economic feasibility.	(1) Identify costs and benefits (2) Assign values to costs and benefits (3) Determine cash flow (4) Determine net present value (5) Determine return on investment (6) Calculate break-even point (7) Graph break-even point
SR	 Explain the role of the project champion.	The project champion is a high-level non-IS executive who is usually but not always the person who created the system request. The champion supports the project by providing time, resources, and political support within the organization. The champion effectively communicates the importance of the project to organizational decision makers. Often more than one project champion is desirable, to account for the possibility that the champion may leave his/her current job within the organization.
SR	 Explain four different dimensions that a technical feasibility analysis should consider.	Technical feasibility is concerned with the question “Can we build it?” To answer this question, the following four dimensions should be evaluated
SR	 Outline the three important components for staffing a project. Include topics such as matching peoples’ skills with project needs, motivating team members, and minimizing conflict. Structure the essay into three or more paragraphs, one for each component.	The three components of staffing are matching people’s skills with project needs, motivating team members, and minimizing conflict.
SR	 A project manager has three options to take when a schedule date has been missed. What are the basic assumptions the project manager can make? What changes to the schedule should the manager make for each assumption? What is the level of risk for each assumption?	When a schedule date is missed in a project plan the project manager can make three possible assumptions. The first is to assume that the rest of the project is simpler than the part completed and that the lost time can be made up during the remainder of the project. No change should be made to the schedule. This is a high-risk assumption since a project rarely gets simpler.
SR	 Describe three classic planning mistakes. What would be a solution for each?	Classic planning mistake 1
SR	 What can be done when the skills needed for a project are not found in the staff that is available for the project?	Project managers cannot always dictate who will be assigned to his/her project team. Sometimes the staff with the needed skills are not available for assignment to a particular project. When the project manager is concerned about the lack of needed skills, it is essential to factor in the development of those skills into the project workplan. Obtaining the services of a vendor or consultant can help a project team initially. Staff can also be sent to training programs. Setting up a mentoring system can also help develop team members' skills by pairing them with other staff members who have the needed skills.
SR	 Discuss the options a project manager has if a phase of a project is completed (a) earlier than expected, and (b) later than expected.	In the happy event that a project phase is completed earlier than expected, the project manager should move all the intermediate target dates up in the project schedule. However, the final completion date should not be adjusted; that slack time may be needed later in the project, and it is not a good idea to change your project sponsor's expectations about the completion date of the project. In the more common situation, a target date for an intermediate phase may be missed. Although it is tempting to think that this time may be made up later in the project, this is rarely the case. In fact, the underestimate of time for the phase that has just been missed may be true for the remainder of the project, implying that all time estimates need to be adjusted (increased). As a general rule, the project manager should determine if the work remaining on the project is simpler than the part of the project that was late. If it is simpler, the original time estimates are probably still appropriate. If the work remaining on the project is more complex than the part that was late, then the time estimates should be increased at least by the percentage of time that the late portion overran its deadline.
SR	 Explain the consequences of a project manager allowing the scope of a project to gradually increase. Why does 'scope creep' occur?	If the project manager allows that scope of the project to increase without adjusting the project's cost and/or schedule, then there is little likelihood that the team can complete the project on time and under budget. This puts severe pressure on the project team, and heightens the risk of project failure. Scope creep is often subtle and usually does not occur for malicious reasons. Rather, the end users may become aware of some desirable features of the system that they honestly did not perceive at the project's outset. Technical staff may become convinced of certain technical features that were not initially identified. Management and project sponsors may perceive new roles for the system as the project progresses. Many project managers try to accommodate these changes, but the trick is to negotiate adjustments in time and/or budget before committing to the expanded requirements.
SR	 For what reason does a project team create a risk assessment? What value is a risk assessment to the team?	It is desirable for a project team to have a clear understanding of the risks that are faced in a project. These risks can be defined and evaluated in a risk assessment, a document that details the risks associated with a project. Risks and their likelihood should be identified and their effect on the project should be assessed. The team can then identify ways to deal with the project risks. As the project progresses, some risks may be reduced and others may become apparent. The risk assessment document should be updated to reflect these changes, and should reflect the current project risk status.
SR	 Sunnyview Hospital needs to create a new patient-record system. Their current manual system is inadequate, and results in many errors in the records for the patients in their care. At this point in time, the users do not have a good idea of what they need the new system to do, but they need it done quickly. Create a risk assessment for this system.	
SR	 Give the formula for the effort in person-months based on the number of lines of code.	effort (in person-months) = 1.4 X thousands of lines of code
SR	 Explain the concept of timeboxing.	Timeboxing sets a fixed deadline for the project and delivers the system by that deadline, even if it means reducing the original functionality. This technique makes sure that the project does not drag on for too long, and ensures that a system is delivered to the business relatively quickly. The following steps are used for timeboxing. First, set the date for system delivery. Second, prioritize functionality that needs to be included in the system. Third, build the core of the system with the essential functionality. Fourth, postpone the functionality that cannot be delivered by the deadline. Fifth, deliver the system with the core functionality. Then repeat steps three to five to add refinements and enhancements.
SR	 Give the formula for the schedule time in months, given the effort in person-months.	Schedule time (in months) = 3.0 X (person-months)1/3
SR	 Explain PERT analysis.	PERT stands for program Analysis and Review Technique. PERT technique can be used when the individual task time estimates are fairly uncertain. Instead of simply relying on one estimate for the duration of the project, PERT uses three estimates
SR	 What are different types of standards that a project may need to adhere to?	Some of the standards that a project needs to comply with are as follows.
SR	 Explain how daily scrum meeting is used for manage the scope of project.	Essentially a daily scrum meeting is a very short, typically 15 minute, meeting that keeps the development team up to date as to the current status of the evolving system. The content of the meeting typically only covers what has been accomplished since the previous meeting, what will be accomplished before the next meeting, and what obstacles could come up that could prevent progress from being made. Also, new requested features could be brought up. However, all proposed additional features are simply added to the product backlog that could be considered during the next iteration or timebox (sprint in Scrum’s nomenclature).
SR	 Explain how daily product backlog is used for manage the scope of project.	The product backlog is essentially a prioritized list of the functional requirements that will be completed during the current iteration. In Scrum, only the client is allowed to modify the product backlog. In this manner, the development team always has a list of the current set of critical requirements. As long as the project is relatively small, this approach to scope management is very effective.
SR	 Explain why the evolutionary Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is preferable for certain project over the traditional WBS.	There are three reasons why the evolutionary WBS is sometime preferable. First, traditional WBS is tied to the structure of the system under development. This makes sense only when the requirements of the system are known. Using traditional WBS when the requirements are not fully understood, forces the analyst to make task assignment decisions before there is enough information. Second, the traditional WBS forces the analyst to specify too many levels of details for large projects and not enough levels of detail for small projects. Third and last, the traditional WBS is too specific to the project and does not make it easy for the analyst to compare the current project to past projects. Evolutionary WBS uses a standard format making comparisons between projects straight forward and easy. Evolutionary WBS is built iteratively and incrementally allowing the analyst to decide the level of detail that is most appropriate for the particular iteration. Evolutionary WBS is structured around the workflows of the UP development methodology and not around the structure of the system. Hence the analyst need not have to fully know the requirements of the system to begin the iterative process of drawing up the WBS. This is particularly useful when the requirements are not yet fully understood as often happens when the business domain is unfamiliar.
SR	 Briefly describe three types of standards for system development, and provide examples of each.	Coding standards define the content and structures that are to be used in programs. An example would be that all programs are to be written following structured programming guidelines.
SR	 What is a use-case point? For what is it used?	Use-case points is a use cases based project effort estimation approach, which was originally developed based on unique features of use cases and object orientation. From a practical point of view, to estimate effort using use-case points, the use cases and the use-case diagram must have been created.
SR	 What process do we use to estimate systems development based on use cases?	Use case models have two primary constructs
SR	 What are the differences between a technical lead and a functional lead?	Technical Lead - The technical lead is typically a project team member who supervises the programmers and more technically oriented project staff.
MC	 _______ is an example of functional requirements.	The system should work with any web browser	incorrect	The system should load any web page within 3 seconds	incorrect	Customers should be able to see their orders after authentication	incorrect	The system should comply with the company’s policy of buying all PCs and servers from Dell	incorrect	The system should be able to search all available inventory in order to determine whether a product can be made by a given date	correct	
MC	 Understanding the as-is system, identifying improvements, and developing requirements for the to-be system are the steps of the _____ phase.	analysis	correct	design	incorrect	implementation	incorrect	planning	incorrect	SDLC	incorrect	
MC	 The most comprehensive and complete deliverable of the analysis phase is _____.	project work plan	incorrect	system proposal	correct	behavioral models for the to-be system	incorrect	functional models for the to-be system	incorrect	structural models for the to-be system	incorrect	
MC	 The most commonly used information-gathering technique is _____.	interviewing	correct	joint application design (JAD) sessions	incorrect	document analysis	incorrect	observation	incorrect	questionnaires	incorrect	
MC	 During an interview, the following question is asked; “How many times during a typical week does a customer complain about inadequate service following a sale?” This question is an example of a (n) _____ question.	Opinion-generating	incorrect	Eye-opening	incorrect	open-ended	incorrect	closed-ended	correct	probing	incorrect	
MC	 Sarah would like to give the interviewee more control over the interview and to gather rich information. She should ask _____ questions.	closed-ended	incorrect	inappropriate	incorrect	open-ended	correct	opinion	incorrect	probing	incorrect	
MC	 The information gathering technique that enables the analyst to collect facts and opinions from a wide range of geographically dispersed people quickly and with the least expense is the _____.	document analysis	incorrect	interview	incorrect	JAD session	incorrect	observation	incorrect	questionnaire	correct	
MC	 The examination of existing paperwork in order to better understand the As-Is system is an example of what information-gathering strategy?	document analysis	correct	interviewing	incorrect	joint application design (JAD) sessions	incorrect	observation	incorrect	questionnaires	incorrect	
MC	 What information-gathering strategy enables the analyst to see the reality of the situation rather than listen to others describe it?	document analysis	incorrect	interviewing	incorrect	joint application design (JAD) sessions	incorrect	observation	correct	questionnaires	incorrect	
MC	 The ________ brings together into a single comprehensive document the material created during planning and analysis	project charter	incorrect	system proposal	correct	system request	incorrect	requirements document	incorrect	vision document	incorrect	
MC	 Both story cards and task lists are considered to be “_____________” approaches to documenting and gathering requirements.	heavy weight	incorrect	lightweight	correct	formal	incorrect	dummy	incorrect	casual	incorrect	
MC	 The executive summary in system proposal is typically no more than __________ page(s) long.	one	correct	two	incorrect	three	incorrect	four	incorrect	five	incorrect	
MC	 From a quality perspective, ___________ quality is related to the degree that the software meets the functional requirements.	functional	correct	non-functional	incorrect	standard	incorrect	security	incorrect	reliability	incorrect	
MC	 The ___________ requirements are associated with the efficiency, maintainability, portability, reliability, reusability, testability, and usability quality dimensions.	functional	incorrect	non-functional	correct	standard	incorrect	correctness	incorrect	performance	incorrect	
MC	 When considering ISO9000 compliance, quality dimensions are further decomposed into __________ and _________.	required and non-required	incorrect	essential and non-essential	incorrect	functional and non-functional	incorrect	internal and external	correct	reliable and non-reliable	incorrect	
TF	 Benchmarking refers to studying how other organizations perform a business process so you can learn how your organization can do it better.	true
TF	 The interview schedule lists all the people who will be interviewed, when, and for what purpose.	true
TF	 Open-ended questions gather rich information because they are questions that permit the interviewee to elaborate on answer.	true
TF	 It is easier to ask an interviewee what is used to perform a task than it is to show the interviewee a form and ask what information on the form is used.	false
TF	 Following an interview the analyst should always prepare an interview report that describes the information gathered from the interview.	true
TF	 The standard approach to select who should complete a questionnaire during information gathering is to sample only those departments that do not have direct contact with the As-Is system.	false
TF	 To better understand the As-Is system the project team members can perform document analysis on existing forms, reports, and business process models.	true
TF	 Observation is a powerful tool for gathering information about the As-Is system and may be necessary because managers often do not remember how they work and how they allocate their time.	true
TF	 Document analysis and observation are commonly used for understanding the As-Is system because they are useful for obtaining facts.	true
TF	 Questionnaires are often used when there is only a small number of people from which information and opinions are needed, because it is difficult to get a large number of participants to return questionnaires on a timely basis.	true
TF	 Questions on questionnaires should be open-ended to allow the respondent the freedom to express his/her opinion since the analyst will not be able to follow up with additional questions as could be done in a one-on-one interview.	false
TF	 The top-down approach is an appropriate strategy for most interviews because it enables the interviewee to become accustomed to the topic before he or she needs to provide specifics and it enables the interviewer to understand the issues before moving to the details.	true
TF	 When you begin an interview, the first goal is to establish control and let the interviewee know that you have a mastery of the subject.	false
TF	 Root cause analysis attempts to find solutions for the business problems.	false
TF	 Tracy has decided to ask the users and managers to identify problems with the current system and to recommend how to solve these problems in the future system. They have recommended small incremental changes. Tracy is identifying improvement opportunities through problem analysis.	true
TF	 Jessica has asked the users to generate a list of problems with the current system and to prioritize the problems in order of importance. Jessica then generated all the possible causes for the problems, starting with the most important. Jessica is identifying improvement opportunities through root cause analysis.	true
TF	 An analyst for an insurance company determined that the overall time required to process a property damage insurance claim is 21 business days. When the analyst decomposes the process into steps and aggregates the total time requirements for all steps, she discovers a total time of 12 hours. The analyst is employing the activity-based costing analysis technique.	false
TF	 A systems analyst is participating in an exchange of services with another organization. First, the analyst visits the partner organization, studies and evaluates their systems, and recommends changes and improvements. Then, a team of analysts from the partner organization visits the analyst’s organization and performs the same service. This process is an example of benchmarking.	true
TF	 Amanda had the managers at her company develop a list of important and interesting technologies and how each technology could be applied to current business process. Amanda is identifying improvement opportunities through technology analysis.	true
TF	 An analysis team consisting of users, managers, and analysts, are in the midst of a daylong meeting. They are working on systematically evaluating the consequences of removing every activity from the current business process. The team is performing activity-based costing.	false
TF	 Activity-based costing is similar to duration analysis. While duration analysis attempts to find the time taken to complete business processes, activity-based costing finds the costs associated with each of the basic functional steps or processes.	true
TF	 A systems analyst has prepared an interview agenda that begins with a number of specific, detailed questions, and then asks the interviewee to make general statements about the policies and procedure of the business process. The analyst is following a top-down interview structure.	false
TF	 An interview style that seeks a broad and roughly defined set of information is commonly called the unstructured interview style.	true
TF	 Kristin, a systems analyst, needs to know detailed information about the accounts receivable process, but she is not concerned with accounts payable or general ledger, or the integration of this information. Her analysis will assist her in designing a To-Be system for the accounts receivable department. The appropriate requirements-gathering technique to be used would be interviewing.	true
TF	 The executive summary is an important component of the system proposal because it is used for convincing the busy executives of the merits of the project as briefly as possible.	false
TF	 A requirement is a statement of what the system must do and how it will be implemented.	false
TF	 Both story cards and task lists requirements documentation techniques are considered to be detail approaches to documenting and gathering requirements.	false
TF	 A system proposal brings together into a single comprehensive document the material created during planning and analysis.	true
TF	 The executive summary in system proposal provides all critical information in a very detail form.	false
TF	 Virtually all of the quality models differentiate functional and non-functional requirements.	true
SR	 What are the methods used to identify improvement opportunities during business process improvement? How do the methods used for each analysis strategy affect the outcome of the “identify improvement” process?	The methods used to identify improvements during business process improvement are duration analysis, activity-based costing, and informal benchmarking. Duration analysis requires a detailed examination of the amount of time it takes to process inputs in the as-is system. First the process time is determined for the entire system. Then the time is determined for each sub-process in the system. The times for the basic sub-processes are then totaled and compared to the total time for the overall system process. When there are significant differences between the two, analysts, users and managers look for solutions such as parallelization and process integration.
SR	 What are the three types of interview questions? Define and identify why an analyst would use each type of question. Include an example of each question type.	The three types of interview questions are closed-ended, open-ended, and probing. Closed-ended questions are questions that require a specific answer. Analysts use closed-ended question when they are looking for specific, precise information. An example of a closed-ended question is “How many telephone orders are received per day?”
SR	 Document analysis and observation are two requirement gathering techniques. Briefly describe each and compare and contrast the advantages and disadvantages.	To understand the As-Is system, project teams often use document analysis. Hopefully, the project team that designed the As-Is system produced adequate data and process models, and all of the paper documents (forms, reports, policy manuals, etc.) necessary to provide an understanding of the system. A project team can learn much about the formal As-Is system from this type of analysis.
SR	 Describe the most common way that the analyst organizes the interview process in terms of structured versus unstructured, and also in terms of open-ended, closed-ended, and probing questions.	Although there is no hard and fast rule, it is usually best to begin the interviewing process with unstructured interviews that consist primarily of open-ended questions. At this point, the analyst will probably not know enough to ask very specific questions, and so should be seeking to gain a broad understanding of the situation. As more is learned, the analyst can use more probing questions to dig deeper. After the analyst has developed a good idea of the major issues, the interviews can become more structured, with more specific, closed-ended questions being effective in confirming facts and impressions.
SR	 During an interview, the analyst has been asking about the process used to identify and correct the number of poor-quality products produced on a manufacturing line. The analyst commented, "This process seems way too slow and complicated. I don't know how you people can function if this is the way things are done." Is this an appropriate comment for the interviewer to make? Why or why not?	This is not an appropriate statement. There are two serious problems with this statement. First, it is an opinion statement. Analysts should be objective collectors of information. They are not there to provide commentary. Second, the remark is derogatory in nature. What if the person he is interviewing is the one who designed that process? The interviewee will be offended and may withdraw his/her support for the project. This attitude may spread to other users and may diminish the chance of a successful project outcome. The analyst needs to stay neutral whenever interacting with the project sponsors, users, and managers.
SR	 What is the primary goal of observation? What are three ways to make observation more effective? How reliable are the results of observation?	The primary goal of observation is to enable the analyst to experience the reality of the As-Is system. The information gained this way can be much better at conveying the actual situation than verbal descriptions. To improve the effectiveness of observation, the analyst should be as unobtrusive as possible. S/he should not interfere with or disrupt the workers being observed. The analyst should also try to observe periods of normal work as well as periods of unusual activity, to get a sense of what the typical experience is and also the special cases that need to be anticipated. The results of observation need to interpreted carefully, because the normal human response to being observed is to do things 'by the book,' rather than using the informal procedures that may have evolved. The analyst needs to remember this and not take everything that is observed as actual fact. The best use of observation is to confirm or verify information gained through other techniques.
SR	 Briefly describe the information is typically included in a system proposal?	A system proposal brings together into a single comprehensive document the material created during planning and analysis. The system proposal typically includes an executive summary, the system request, the work plan, the feasibility analysis, the requirements definition, and the evolving models that describe the new system. The evolving models include functional models, structural models, and behavioral models. The executive summary provides all critical information in a very concise form. It can be thought of as a summary of the complete proposal.
SR	 Briefly describe the story cards and task lists requirements documentation techniques. What are some of the advantages of using story cards and task lists as a requirements gathering and documentation technique?	Both story cards and task lists are considered to be “lite weight” approaches to documenting and gathering requirements. A story card is typically an index card with a single requirement (functional or non-functional) written on it. Once the requirement is written down, it is discussed to determine the amount of effort it will take to implement it. During the discussion, a task list is created for the requirement (story). If the requirement is deemed to be too large, i.e., there are too many tasks on the task list, the requirement is split up into multiple story cards and the tasks are allocated across the new stories. In many shops, once a set of tasks have been identified with a story, the story and its tasks are taped on a wall together so that all members of the development team may see the requirements. The story can be prioritized by importance by placing a rating on the card. The story can also be evaluated as to the level of risk associated with it. The importance level and amount of risk associated with the story can be used to help choose which requirements to implement first.
SR	 Briefly explain the non-functional requirements and functional requirements in software quality.	One area of information systems development that focused on differentiating functional and non-­-functional requirements is software quality. There have been many different models proposed to measure the quality of software. However, virtually all of them differentiate functional and non-­-functional requirements. From a quality perspective, functional quality is related to the degree that the software meets the functional requirements, i.e., how much of the actual problem is solved by the software solution provided. Whereas, the non-­-functional requirements are associated with the efficiency, maintainability, portability, reliability, reusability, testability, and usability quality dimensions. As stated above, the non-­-functional related dimensions are associated primarily with the actual detailed design and implementation of the system.
SR	 Briefly explain the external and internal quality dimensions in ISO9000.	When considering ISO 9000 compliance, quality dimensions are further decomposed into those that the user can see (external) and those that the user cannot see (internal). The external non-­-functional dimensions include efficiency, reliability, and usability where the internal non-­-functional dimensions include maintainability, portability, reusability, and testability. From a user perspective, the external dimensions are more important. If the system is simply too difficult to use, regardless how well the system “solves” the problem, the user will simply not use the system. In other words, from a user’s perspective, for an information system to be successful, the system must not only meet the functional specification, but it must also meet the external non-­-functional specifications. From a developer perspective, the internal dimensions are also important. For example, given that successful systems tend to be long-­-lived and multi-­-platform, both the maintainability and portability dimensions can have strategic implications for the system being developed. Also, given the agile development approaches being used in industry today, the development of reusable and testable software is crucial.
MC	 A(n) _____ is a formal way of representing how a business system interacts with its environment.	use case	correct	physical model	incorrect	relationship	incorrect	system boundary	incorrect	trigger	incorrect	
MC	 A scenario is the same as a(n) _____.	use case	incorrect	relationship	incorrect	path through a use case	correct	collection of use cases	incorrect	role	incorrect	
MC	 Each use case describes _____ function(s) in which users interact with the system.	one	correct	one or more	incorrect	many	incorrect	zero, one, or more	incorrect	all	incorrect	
MC	 Jim has documented a use case that describes the functionality of a system as “To compute gross pay, multiply the hours worked that are recorded on the time card from the time clock by the hourly rate that is recorded in the employee master file from the MS SQL server database.” This is an example of a(n) _____ use case.	overview	incorrect	detail	incorrect	essential	incorrect	real	correct	imaginary	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ use case is typically created early in the process of understanding the system requirements as a way of documenting basic information about the use case.	overview	correct	detail	incorrect	essential	incorrect	real	incorrect	imaginary	incorrect	
MC	 The importance level of a use case increases for all of the following characteristics of the use case except _____.	the use case represents an important business process	incorrect	the use case supports revenue generation	incorrect	the technology is proven	correct	the functionality is complex	incorrect	the functionality is time-critical	incorrect	
MC	 The _____ relationship in use cases allows use cases to support the concept of inheritance.	association	incorrect	extend	incorrect	include	incorrect	generalization	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 The event that causes a use case to begin is called a(n) _____.	action	incorrect	trigger	correct	hammer	incorrect	anvil	incorrect	stakeholder	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following relationships describe the communication between the use case and the actors?	association relationship	correct	extend relationship	incorrect	include relationship	incorrect	generalization relationship	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following relationships represent the extension of the functionality of the use case to cover optional behavior?	association relationship	incorrect	extend relationship	correct	include relationship	incorrect	generalization relationship	incorrect	optional relationship	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the relationship types in use cases enables functional decomposition?	association relationship	incorrect	extend relationship	incorrect	include relationship	correct	generalization relationship	incorrect	decompose relationship	incorrect	
MC	 Individual steps in a use case should be written in the form _____.	Direct Object, Verb, Subject, Preposition, Indirect Object	incorrect	Direct Object, Subject, Verb, Preposition, Indirect Object	incorrect	Subject, Verb, Preposition, Indirect Object, Direct Object	incorrect	Subject, Verb, Indirect Object, Preposition, Direct Object	incorrect	Subject, Verb, Direct Object, Preposition, Indirect Object	correct	
MC	 If a use case becomes too complex, it should be _____.	rewritten to simplify it	incorrect	decomposed into a set of use cases	correct	written with a series of repeating steps to simplify it	incorrect	written from the perspective of an independent observe to simplify it	incorrect	dropped from the system, as it will be too complex to implement in the final system	incorrect	
MC	 The correct sequence of the major steps in creating use case diagrams is _____.	identify the major use cases, expand the major use cases, confirm the major use cases, create the use-case diagram	correct	identify the major use cases, expand the major use cases, create the use-case diagram, confirm the major use cases	incorrect	create the use-case diagram, identify the major use cases, expand the major use cases, confirm the major use cases	incorrect	create the use-case diagram, identify the major use cases, confirm the major use cases, expand the major use cases	incorrect	identify the major use cases, confirm the major use cases, expand the major use cases, create the use-case diagram	incorrect	
MC	 When drawing the use-case diagram, an analyst should do the steps in this order: _____.	draw the use cases on the diagram, identify the system boundary, place the actors on the diagram, and draw the lines connecting the actors to the use cases	incorrect	identify the system boundary, draw the use cases on the diagram, place the actors on the diagram, and draw the lines connecting the actors to the use cases	correct	place the actors on the diagram, draw the use cases on the diagram, identify the system boundary, and draw the lines connecting the actors to the use cases	incorrect	identify the system boundary, place the actors on the diagram, draw the use cases on the diagram, and draw the lines connecting the actors to the use cases	incorrect	none of these gives the correct order of steps	incorrect	
MC	 Object nodes model these objects in an activity diagram. Object nodes are portrayed in an activity diagram as _________________.	arcs	incorrect	ovals	incorrect	diamonds	incorrect	rectangles	correct	rounded rectangles	incorrect	
MC	 A fork node in an activity diagram is used to __________ behavior into a set of parallel or concurrent flows of activities (or actions).	combine	incorrect	create	incorrect	initialize	incorrect	split	correct	represent	incorrect	
MC	 The purpose of a walkthrough is to thoroughly test the fidelity of the functional models to the __________________ and to ensure that the models are consistent.	non-functional models	incorrect	use-case diagrams	incorrect	activity diagrams	incorrect	functional requirements	correct	use-case descriptions	incorrect	
MC	 Activity diagrams, use-case descriptions, and use-case diagrams are three different representations for the ___________________.	functional and non-functional model	incorrect	functional model	correct	non-functional model	incorrect	design model	incorrect	architectural model	incorrect	
TF	 Use cases are the primary drivers for all of the UML diagramming techniques.	true
TF	 An essential use case describes the specific set of steps to be followed.	false
TF	 A use case that describes functionality that is complex and risky would be given a high importance level.	true
TF	 The primary actor is the person or thing that starts the execution of a use case.	true
TF	 The include relationship represents the optional inclusion of another use case.	false
TF	 Inheritance is supported in use cases through the generalization relationship.	true
TF	 An alternate or exceptional flow in a use case documents the decomposition of the normal flow of events.	false
TF	 The SVDPI form of sentences in use cases aids in the identification of classes.	true
TF	 A very complex use case should be broken down into a set of use cases.	true
TF	 An actor is represented in a use case diagram by a stick figure of a man.	true
TF	 An include relationship is modeled in a use case diagram by an arrow with the word <<include>> above it.	true
TF	 An actor in a use case must be a person.	false
TF	 An actor in a use case always represents a specific user.	false
TF	 A formal way of representing how a business system interacts with its environment is termed a use case.	true
TF	 Rectangles are used to represent association relationships in use case diagrams.	false
TF	 Each use case can be associated with one or more role(s) that users have in the system.	false
TF	 A use case that represents an important business process and involves the use of new technology would likely be given an importance level of medium.	false
TF	 A use case that begins at the end of the month has a temporal trigger.	true
TF	 The use case Take Order has a temporal trigger if it begins when a customer calls to place an order.	false
TF	 As Felix is documenting an order entry system, he discovers that someone can call up to place an order that is not a customer. In this case, the Take Order use case will use the Create Customer use case to capture the customer information, and then the order will be taken. This is an example of the extend relationship between use cases.	true
TF	 A use case should be written from the perspective of at least one of the actors associated with the use case.	false
TF	 A solid line without arrows between an actor and a use case in a use case diagram represents a one-way flow of communication from the actor to the use case.	false
TF	 Use cases are typically written to document the normal flow of events. Exceptions that occur in the normal flow need not be documented as part of the use case description.	false
TF	 An asterisk on a relationship in a use case diagram represents multiplicity of the association.	true
TF	 When drawing use case diagrams, higher level use cases are drawn below lower level use cases.	false
TF	 The first step in creating use case diagrams is to identify the primary actors and their goals.	false
TF	 Object nodes in an activity diagram are depicted using rectangles.	true
TF	 Control flows in an activity diagram show the flow of objects into and out of activities.	false
TF	 Control flows in an activity diagram are shown using solid-lines with arrows while object flows are shown using dashed lines with arrows.	true
TF	 A decision node in an activity diagram is used to represent the actual test condition that is used to determine which of the paths exiting the node is to be traversed.	true
TF	 Paths coming out of a decision node are always mutually-exclusive, while the paths coming out of a fork node are sometimes concurrent and sometimes mutually-exclusive.	false
TF	 Join nodes in an activity diagram are used to bring concurrent or parallel flows together back into a single flow.	true
TF	 A guard condition represents the value of the decision-test, based on which a particular path from the decision node will be traversed.	true
TF	 Setting the scope of the activity being modeled is a task that can be accomplished after completing the activity diagram.	false
TF	 Activity diagram is a representation for the non-functional model.	false
TF	 Activity diagram, use-case diagram and use-case descriptions are three different representations for the non-functional model.	true
TF	 Verification and validation through a walkthrough is to uncover and correct errors or faults in the evolving specification.	false
TF	 The presenter role in a walkthrough team is more important than the role maintenance oracle.	false
TF	 For a walkthrough to be successful, the members of the walkthrough team MUST be fully prepared.	true
TF	 When comparing a use-case description to a use-case diagram for functional model verification and validation, there must be one and only one use-case description for each use case, and vice versa..	true
TF	 A join node in an activity diagram is used to split behavior into a set of parallel or concurrent flows of activities (or actions).	false
TF	 All object-oriented systems development approaches are use-case driven, architecture-centric, and iterative and incremental.	true
SR	 Write a complete use case description for the interaction that a student would have with your college or university’s class registration system.	There is no single correct answer to this question, as it will depend on the particular details of your school’s system. Also, it may vary based on the student’s perspective on the system. For example, at most schools athletes go through a different registration process than the rest of the students.
SR	 How does a project team go about obtaining the information they need to create use case descriptions?	The project team must work closely with the users as they develop the use cases. Often the project team will use interviews, JAD sessions, and observation to gain this information. In reality, the techniques are similar to those discussed in Chapter 4 of the text. The key will be keeping in mind that a use case is associated with a role that a person plays in the system, not with a specific person.
SR	 What are the four types of use cases? When are each used?	Use cases will vary based on the purpose of the use case and the level of detail they contain. Thus, there will be overview versus detail use cases, and essential versus real ones.
SR	 What are the five characteristics of a use case that impacts its importance level? Describe each, and indicate what conditions would result in a higher importance level.	The use case may represent an important business process, which results in a higher importance level. The use case may support the generation of revenue or cost reduction. If so, this would result in a higher importance level. If the technology needed to support the use case is new or risky, that will result in a higher importance level. If the functionality in the use case is complex, risky, and/or time-critical, then the importance level will be higher. If the use case could help increase the level of understanding of the evolving design of the system, and this increase in understanding comes with little relative effort, then the importance level will be higher.
SR	 Distinguish between the extend and include relationships in use case diagrams. When would you use each of these relationships?	An extend relationship documents the extension of the functionality of the use case to incorporate optional behavior. For example, if the use case Register for Classes describes the registration process at your university, the use case Clear Financial Hold would only be executed for students who have financial holds on their registration, and the relationship between these two use cases would be an extend relationship. An include relationship represents the mandatory inclusion of another use case, which would happen if you had decomposed a particularly complex use case into several simpler ones. The text points out that this type of relationship allows for functional decomposition.
SR	 Distinguish between the association and generalization relationships in use case diagrams. When would you use each of these relationships?	An association relationship documents the communication between the use case and the actors that use the use case. All actors involved in the use case will be documented with the association relationship. The generalization relationship allows use cases to support the concept of inheritance, since use cases can inherit the behaviors of other use cases. For example, Athlete Registration and New Student Registration can both have generalization relationships with Register for Classes, which would be used by the typical student.
SR	 Explain the difference between normal flows and subflows that would be documented in a use case.	The normal flow of events describes the steps that are normally executed in a use case. The steps in a normal flow are listed in the order in which they are performed. In some cases it is recommended that the steps in a normal flow be decomposed to simplify the normal flow. Thus, subflows are used to help keep the normal flow of events as simple as possible. Subflows represent the decomposition of normal flow steps. At times, subflows could be replaced with a separate use case, if it makes sense.
SR	 Explain the usefulness of alternate flows and when they are used.	Alternate or exceptional flows are those that can happen, but they are not the normal flow. They are documented separately to keep the normal flow of events as simple as possible. For example, in a student registration system, you may have alternate flows for students with financial or academic holds on registration, or those who have to deal with a closed class situation before they can complete their registration.
SR	 What is the SVDPI form for steps in a use case, and why is it important to use this format when writing use cases? Provide an example of a sentence written in this format.	SVDPI represents Subject-Verb-Direct Object and optionally Preposition-Indirect Object. This form of the sentence is useful for identifying classes and operations from the use case description. An example may be something like “The Student contacts the academic department to obtain a closed-class waiver.”
SR	 List and briefly describe the four major steps in writing effective use-case descriptions and use-case diagrams.	Identify the major use cases
SR	 What is an actor? What is their role in a system?	An actor is a role played by an individual while they are interacting with the system, or it may be another system that interacts with the current system. An actor is not a specific person. Actors can provide input to the system, receive output from the system, or both. A primary actor is an actor who triggers the use case.
SR	 Distinguish between logical models and physical models.	Logical models are models that describe the business domain’s activities without suggesting how they are conducted. Logical models are also referred to as problem domain models. Examples of logical models include activity diagrams and use case diagrams. Logical models are constructed in the analysis phase while physical models are constructed in the design phase. In the design phase, logical models are refined into physical models, which provide information that is ultimately used to build the system. Logical models allow the analyst to focus on the business operations without getting distracted by the implementation details.
SR	 Describe the terms action, activity and object nodes that are found in an activity diagram.	Action is a simple non-decomposable piece of the overall behavior that is being modeled. On the other hand, an activity is used to represent a set of actions. An activity can further be decomposed into other activities or actions. Actions and activities can represent either computerized or manual behavior. They are depicted using rounded rectangles. Object nodes model objects in the activity diagram. They are represented using rectangles. Object nodes represent the flow of information from one activity to another activity.
SR	 Distinguish between control flows and object flows in an activity diagram.	Control flows model the paths of execution through a business process. Control flows can only be attached to actions or activities, and are depicted using a solid line with an arrowhead depicting the direction of flow. Object flows model the flow of objects through the business process. Since activities or actions modify or transform objects, object flows are necessary to show the actual objects that are used by and modified by these actions and activities. Object flows are depicted using dashed lines with arrows, and must have an activity at one end and an object at the other end.
SR	 What is a walkthrough?	A walkthrough is essentially a peer review of a product. In the case of the functional models, a walkthrough is a review of the different models and diagrams created during functional modeling. This review typically is completed by a team of individuals that comes from the development team and the client. The purpose of a walkthrough is to thoroughly test the fidelity of the functional models to the functional requirements and to ensure that the models are consistent. That is, a walkthrough uncovers errors or faults in the evolving specification. However, a walkthrough does not correct errors—it simply identifies them. Error correction is to be accomplished by the team after the walkthrough is completed.
SR	 What are the different roles played during a walk-through?	There are specified roles that different members of the walkthrough team can play. The first is the presenter role. This should be played by the individual who is primarily responsible for the specific representation being reviewed. This individual presents the representation to the walkthrough team. The second role is recorder, or scribe. The recorder should be a member of the analysis team. This individual carefully takes the minutes of the meeting by recording all significant events that occur during the walkthrough. In particular, all errors that are uncovered must be documented so that the analysis team can address them. The third role is to have someone who raises issues regarding maintenance of the representation. Due to the emphasis on reusability in object-oriented development, this role becomes particularly crucial.
SR	 Briefly describe the set of rules that are used to ensure the three representations (activity diagrams, use-case descriptions, and use-case diagrams) for the functional models are consistent among themselves.	There are three different representations for the functional model
SR	 Briefly describe the purposes of use case modeling in software development.	All object-oriented systems development approaches are use-case driven, architecture-centric, and iterative and incremental. A use case is a formal way of representing the way a business system interacts with its environment. Essentially, a use case is a high-level overview of the business processes in a business information system. From a practical perspective, use cases represent the entire basis for an object-oriented system. Use cases can document the current system (i.e., as-is system) or the new system being developed (i.e., to-be system). Given that object-oriented systems are use-case driven, use cases also form the foundation for testing and user-interface design. From an architecture-centric perspective, use case modeling supports the creation of an external or functional view of a business process in that it shows how the users view the process rather than the internal mechanisms by which the process and supporting systems operate.
MC	 Which of the following are used to create objects?	concrete objects	incorrect	abstract objects	incorrect	concrete classes	correct	abstract classes	incorrect	concrete instances	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ of an analysis class represents a piece of information that is relevant to the description of the class.	instance	incorrect	object	incorrect	attribute	correct	operation	incorrect	relationship	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following would most likely not be an example of an attribute?	employee name	incorrect	customer address	incorrect	stock number	incorrect	ISBN number	incorrect	cancel appointment	correct	
MC	 Which of the following types of attributes is not proper in an analysis class?	integers	incorrect	strings	incorrect	doubles	incorrect	compound	correct	date	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ of an analysis class is where the behavior of the class is defined.	operation	correct	attribute	incorrect	class	incorrect	object	incorrect	abstract class	incorrect	
MC	 Service is another name for _____.	attribute	incorrect	class	incorrect	abstract class	incorrect	operation	correct	object	incorrect	
MC	 “A-kind-of” relationships represent _____ relationships.	generalization	correct	association	incorrect	aggregation	incorrect	subsetting	incorrect	vague	incorrect	
MC	 “A-part-of” or “has-parts” relationships represent _____ relationships.	generalization	incorrect	association	incorrect	aggregation	correct	subsetting	incorrect	vague	incorrect	
MC	 If a “student signs up for a class,” which type of relationship would you use to model the relationship between the two?	generalization	incorrect	association	correct	aggregation	incorrect	subsetting	incorrect	vague	incorrect	
MC	 CRC cards are used to document the responsibilities and collaborations of a(n) _____.	class	correct	relationship	incorrect	object	incorrect	attribute	incorrect	operation	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ formalizes the interactions between a client and server object.	relationship	incorrect	contract	correct	abstract object	incorrect	concrete object	incorrect	abstraction	incorrect	
MC	 A collaboration consists of _____.	two instances of a class talking with each other	incorrect	two instances of a class knowing the value of each other’s attributes	incorrect	a set of classes that share common operations	incorrect	a set of classes that are all related to one another	incorrect	a set of classes involved in a use case	correct	
MC	 A _____ object is an instance of a class that sends a request to an instance of another class for an operation to be executed.	client	correct	server	incorrect	contract	incorrect	requester	incorrect	CRC	incorrect	
MC	 A _____ object is the instance of a class that receives a request from another object.	client	incorrect	server	correct	contract	incorrect	provider	incorrect	CRC	incorrect	
MC	 A mechanism for developing CRC cards is for the user or analyst to role-play as if they are an instance of the class. This process is called _____.	acting	incorrect	anthropomorphism	correct	interviewing	incorrect	anamorphous	incorrect	observation	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following is part of a CRC card?	class name	incorrect	type	incorrect	description	incorrect	responsibilities	incorrect	all of these	correct	
MC	 Which of the following would not be an appropriate class name?	student	incorrect	patient	incorrect	John	correct	customer	incorrect	doctor	incorrect	
MC	 A class diagram is a(n) _____ model.	static	correct	dynamic	incorrect	evolving	incorrect	obsolete	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 A public attribute is shown in a class diagram with the symbol _____ before the name.	–	incorrect	#	incorrect	*	incorrect	+	correct	/	incorrect	
MC	 One way to identify objects for the class diagram is to scan the use case descriptions for ___________________.	relationships	incorrect	object lists	incorrect	patterns	incorrect	nouns	correct	verbs	incorrect	
MC	 Many different approaches have been suggested to aid the analyst in identifying a set of candidate objects for the structural model. The four most common approaches are textual analysis, brainstorming, common object lists, and _______________.	use cases	incorrect	business models	incorrect	patterns	correct	nouns	incorrect	verbs	incorrect	
MC	 Text analysis is one of the four approaches to aid the analysis in identifying a set of candidate objects for the structural model. Textual analysis is an analysis of the text in the ___________________.	business models	incorrect	use case descriptions	correct	class diagrams	incorrect	activity diagrams	incorrect	use case diagrams	incorrect	
MC	 This chapter suggested three representations that could be used for structural modeling: CRC cards, class diagrams, and ___________________.	object diagrams	correct	use case diagrams	incorrect	activity diagrams	incorrect	use case description	incorrect	business models	incorrect	
MC	 One of rules for verifying the structural model is to check that the object type of the attributes listed on the back of the CRC card and with the attributes in the attribute list of the class on a class diagram implies _______________from the class to the class of the object type.	an inheritance	incorrect	an aggregation	incorrect	a dependence	incorrect	an association	correct	a communication	incorrect	
TF	 A structural model is a formal way of representing the business activities in a business system.	false
TF	 Abstract classes are used to create objects.	false
TF	 Aggregation relationships can be useful for both aggregation and decomposition.	true
TF	 Association relationships are used for the relationship between instances of two classes when the relationship is not specific enough to be considered a generalization or an aggregation relationship.	true
TF	 CRC cards are used to capture all of the relevant information associated with a class.	true
TF	 The responsibilities of a class can be divided into knowing and doing types.	true
TF	 A contract formalizes the interactions between one client object and other client objects.	false
TF	 Role-playing an instance of a class is a good way to develop CRC cards.	true
TF	 A class diagram is a dynamic model that shows how the classes and relationships change over time.	false
TF	 The symbol for a class in a class diagram contains the name of the class, a list of the attributes, and a list of operations.	true
TF	 It is possible for the multiplicity of a relationship to be “zero or more.”	true
TF	 Views are often used to provide the user a complete picture of the class diagram.	false
TF	 Object diagram is just another name for class diagram; they both show the same information.	false
TF	 A common object list is a list of objects that are common to business domains.	true
TF	 Patterns can be reused in the development of object-oriented systems.	true
TF	 Textual analysis is the review of corporate documents to identify potential objects, attributes, operations, and relationships.	false
TF	 Patterns are useful for identifying classes, attributes, operations, and relationships in certain business domains.	true
TF	 Part of the process of creating CRC cards is role-playing them, where individuals perform the operations for the class on the card.	true
TF	 Books have been written that list useful patterns for a wide variety of business domains.	true
TF	 The main building blocks of a class diagram are the relationships between entities	false
TF	 In the symbol for a class, the name goes in the bottom compartment.	false
TF	 A class symbol has the attributes listed in the top compartment.	false
TF	 Operations of a class are listed in the bottom compartment of the class symbol.	true
TF	 Age is an example of a derived attribute in a class since it can be computed from the date-of-birth attribute and the current date.	true
TF	 A derived attribute that is stored is shown on a class diagram with the symbol # before the name.	false
TF	 The symbol - before the name of an attribute on a class diagram represents a private attribute.	true
TF	 The default visibility for an attribute in a class diagram is public.	false
TF	 The default visibility of an operation in a class diagram is public.	true
TF	 A constructor operation creates a new instance of a class?	true
TF	 The update operation makes information about the state of an object available to other objects without altering the object.	false
TF	 The query operation will change the value of one or more of an object’s attributes.	false
TF	 The multiplicity one-or-more on a relationship is signified by the notation 1..M.	false
TF	 The multiplicity zero or more is signified by the notation 0..*.	true
TF	 *..1 is a valid multiplicity on a relationship in a class diagram.	false
TF	 When classes share a many-to-many relationship, it is common to create an association class that has its own attributes and methods.	true
TF	 A diamond at the end of a relationship in a class diagram represents the many side of the relationship.	false
TF	 A view is used to simplify a class diagram by subsetting the information available on the diagram for viewing.	true
TF	 An object diagram may be created to make a class diagram easier to read by grouping classes together.	false
TF	 In the textual analysis of a use case, the use case name suggests possible classes while the verbs suggest possible operations.	false
TF	 In textual analysis of a use case, a doing verb implies an operation.	true
TF	 A pattern is a group of collaborating classes that solve a recurring problem.	true
TF	 Common object lists technique identifies candidate objects for a structural model by analyzing the text in the use-case descriptions.	false
TF	 Common object lists technique identifies candidate objects for a structural model by analyzing a list of objects that are common to the business domain.	true
TF	 The four most common approaches have been suggested to aid the analyst in identifying a set of candidate objects for the structural model are textual analysis, brainstorming, common object lists, and design patterns.	false
TF	 Textual analysis to aid the analyst in identifying a set of candidate objects for the structural model is an analysis of the text in the business model.	false
TF	 CRC cards, class diagrams, and object diagrams are three representations could be used for structural modeling.	true
TF	 The set of rules used for verifying and validating the structural model is to check the consistency between CRC cards and class diagrams of the structural model.	true
TF	 One of the rules used for verifying and validating the structural model is to check that every CRC card should be associated with a class on the class diagram, and vice-versa.	true
TF	 One of the rules used for verifying and validating the structural model is to check that the object type of the attributes listed on the back of the CRC card and with the attributes in the attribute list of the class on a class diagram implies an aggregation from the class to the class of the object type.	false
TF	 One of the rules used for verifying and validating the structural model is to check that the responsibilities listed on the front of the CRC card must be included as attributes in a class on a class diagram, and vice versa.	false
SR	 Define what a structural model is. Why should a systems analyst create one? Why is the creation of a structural model iterative?	A structural model is a formal way of representing the data that are used and created by a business system. It shows the people, places, or things about which information is captured and used by the system, and it shows the interrelations between them.
SR	 Define the following terms: class, attribute, and operation. Give examples of each.	A class is a template used to create specific instances or objects in the application domain. All of the objects of a given class will have the same structure and behavior, but will vary in the data in their attributes. For example, a class may be “student” and the instances of that class would be specific students – John, Jane, Sue – where the attribute first name obviously has a different value for each student.
SR	 An analyst has discovered two classes where one appears to be a superclass and the other a subclass. What type of relationship is used to model this association on a structural model? What is the notation that is used? Draw an example of how this would be illustrated on a class diagram.	When there is a superclass and one or more subclasses, a generalization relationship is used to represent the “a-kind-of” relationship. The notation is a solid line from the subclass to the superclass and a hollow arrow pointing at the superclass. An example is shown below. Employee superclass has Data Entry Clerk as the subclass.
SR	 What are the three parts of the notation for a class on a class diagram? Define each part.	The class notation on the class diagram contains a name, which should be a noun, in the top compartment, the list of attributes in the middle compartment, and a list of operations in the bottom compartment. The attributes are characteristics of the class that will vary in value for each instance of the class (e.g., first name could be an attribute but it would have a different value for each instance of the class). The operations are actions or functions that the class can perform, such as “prepare back-order notice” or “drop student from class.”
SR	 What is a relationship? What are the types of relationships that you may have on a class diagram? Define each of these.	A relationship is the association between two classes on a class diagram. There are at least three types of relationships that occur on class diagrams
SR	 Describe how views and packages help simplify class diagrams.	Views are a subset of the class diagram that only shows the information desired by the user. For example, it may show only the classes and relationships that are relevant to a particular case, or only show the relationships of a particular type.
SR	 Describe the textual analysis method for identifying candidate objects for a structural model.	Textual analysis involves analyzing the text of the use cases, using the text to provide clues about classes, instances of classes, attributes, operations, and relationships. The analyst starts by reviewing the use-case descriptions and use-case diagrams. The text in the descriptions is examined to identify potential objects, attributes, operations and relationships. Nouns in the use cases suggest possible classes, while verbs suggest possible operations. The simplicity of this technique is a major advantage.
SR	 Describe the common object list technique for identifying candidate objects for a structural model.	Common object lists are simply a list of objects that are common to the business domain. This involves the analyst ignoring the use cases and looking instead for physical or tangible things in the business domain, incidents that occur, or roles that people play in the business domain. Each of these can help identify objects that were missed in the analysis of the use cases.
SR	 Describe the patterns method for identifying candidate objects for a structural model.	Patterns is the third way to identify candidate objects for a structural model. This involves matching exiting patterns of classes to the target business domain to see if any of them can be reused. Books of patterns have been published for many of the common business domains, and they can be referenced by the analyst as a way of identifying possible objects. By simply reusing the existing patterns of classes, an analyst can define the system more quickly and more completely. Many common patterns have been published ranging from high-level business oriented patterns to low-level design patterns.
SR	 Explain the concept of object diagrams. How do they differ from class diagrams?	An object diagram is essentially an instantiation of all or part of the class diagram. Object diagrams are very useful when one is trying to uncover the details of a class. This is because it is easier to think in terms of concrete objects (instances) than in an abstract way using classes. By looking at the concrete objects (instances), an analyst may uncover more classes or methods or attributes that should belong to classes.
SR	 Describe different types of multiplicity that may be found on relationships in a class diagram.	(1) Exactly one. An example of this type of multiplicity is that each Department has one and only one Manager. (2) Zero or More. An example is that an Employee may have zero or more Dependents. (3) One or More. An example is that a Manager is responsible for one or more Employees (4) Zero or One. An example is that an Employee has zero or one Spouse. (5) Specified Range. An example is that an employee can take between two to four vacations each year. (6) Multiple disjoint ranges. An employee may be a member of one to three or five committees.
SR	 Describe the four most common approaches have been suggested to aid the analyst in identifying a set of candidate objects for the structural model. These methods are textual analysis, brainstorming, common object lists, and patterns.	Textual analysis is an analysis of the text in the use-case descriptions. The analyst starts by reviewing the use-case descriptions and the use-case diagrams. The text in the descriptions is examined to identify potential objects, attributes, operations, and relationships. The nouns in the use case suggest possible classes, whereas the verbs suggest possible operations.
SR	 Describe the set of rules for verifying and validating the structural model.	Three representations could be used for structural modeling
SR	 For what purpose is an association class used in a class diagram? Give an example of an association class that may be found in a class diagram that captures students and the courses they have taken.	The association class is used to show a relationship where the relationship itself has attributes -- in other words which has information regarding the relationship itself that should be captured. Students enroll in courses. There is information about that enrollment itself -- when it occurs and the grade received, for example, that would be of interest to keep track of.
MC	 The external behavior of a system is described by _____.	functional models	correct	structural models	incorrect	behavioral models	incorrect	interaction diagrams	incorrect	statechart diagrams	incorrect	
MC	 An analyst depicts the static view of an information system with _____.	use-case models	incorrect	structural models	correct	behavioral models	incorrect	interaction diagrams	incorrect	statechart diagrams	incorrect	
MC	 The two types of interaction diagrams are ______________ diagrams.	use-case and sequence	incorrect	class and sequence	incorrect	sequence and communication	correct	object and communication	incorrect	statechart and object	incorrect	
MC	 The modeling focus of the interaction diagram is at the _____ level while the modeling focus on the class diagram is at the _____ level.	class, object	incorrect	interaction, class	incorrect	class, interaction	incorrect	object, class	correct	high, low	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ is an instantiation of a class.	attribute	incorrect	behavior	incorrect	operation	incorrect	message	incorrect	object	correct	
MC	 A(n) _____ describes information about an object.	attribute	correct	behavior	incorrect	operation	incorrect	message	incorrect	instance	incorrect	
MC	 _____ are information that is sent to objects to tell it to execute one of its behaviors.	Attributes	incorrect	Operations	incorrect	Messages	correct	Instances	incorrect	use-cases	incorrect	
MC	 Analysts use _____ to show the objects that participate in a use case and the messages that pass between the objects over time for one particular use case.	structural models	incorrect	sequence diagrams	correct	collaboration diagram	incorrect	class diagrams	incorrect	behavioral state machines	incorrect	
MC	 When arranging actors and objects on a sequence diagram, it is nice to list them _____.	in alphabetical order down the side of the diagram	incorrect	in alphabetical order across the top of the diagram	incorrect	in order in which they participate in the sequence down the side of the diagram	incorrect	in order in which they participate in the sequence across the top of the diagram	correct	actors and objects are not both shown on a sequence diagram	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following objects would be most likely to be destroyed at some point in time in a sequence diagram?	customer	incorrect	order	incorrect	order item	incorrect	invoice	incorrect	shopping cart	correct	
MC	 A systems analyst draws a lifeline with an X at the end. This lifeline represents _____.	a message that cannot be delivered	incorrect	an object that is destroyed at a point in time	correct	a message that is delivered at that point in time	incorrect	an object that is complete at that point in time	incorrect	an object that arrives at its final destination	incorrect	
MC	 The focus in a sequence diagram is on __________________	How actors interact with objects to realize a given use case	incorrect	Messages sent by actors to other objects	incorrect	when an object is being created	incorrect	when messages are being destroyed	incorrect	time ordering of messages being passed between objects	correct	
MC	 On a sequence diagram, an object name of Students:List would indicate that _____.	Students is an instance of the List class that contains individual student objects	correct	List is an instance of the Students class	incorrect	List is a method of the Students class	incorrect	the Students and Lists objects are combined for that step in the sequence diagram	incorrect	a message is being passed from the Students class to the List class	incorrect	
MC	 The order of messages on a sequence diagram goes from ____ to _____.	right to left	incorrect	bottom to top	incorrect	left to right	incorrect	top to bottom	correct	left to right, top to bottom	incorrect	
MC	 When an object sends a message to itself in a sequence diagram that is referred to as _____.	recursive-messaging	incorrect	self-messaging	incorrect	self-delegation	correct	recursive-delegation	incorrect	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 The first step in building a sequence diagram is to _____.	set the context	correct	identify which objects will participate	incorrect	set the lifeline for each object	incorrect	add the focus of control to each object’s lifeline	incorrect	validate the sequence diagram	incorrect	
MC	 The acronym CRUD stands for _____.	create, read, update, delete	correct	create, reference, underline, delete	incorrect	create, re-do, underline, delete	incorrect	collaborate, read, update, delete	incorrect	collaborate, reference, update, discard	incorrect	
MC	 A behavioral state machine is a dynamic model that shows the different state through which a single _____ passes through its life in response to events, along with its responses and actions.	object	correct	actor	incorrect	use case	incorrect	sequence diagram	incorrect	communication diagram	incorrect	
MC	 A set of rules are used for performing the verification and validation walkthrough of behavioral model. One of the rules is: if there is a message on the sequence diagram, there must be _________________on the communications diagram, and vice versa.	a communication	incorrect	a message	incorrect	a behavior	incorrect	a dependence	incorrect	an association	correct	
MC	 A set of rules are used for performing the verification and validation walkthrough of behavioral model. One of the rules is: all entries in a CRUDE matrix imply _____________ being sent from an actor or object to another actor or object.	a message	correct	a transition	incorrect	an association	incorrect	a guard condition	incorrect	a behavior	incorrect	
MC	 A set of rules are used for performing the verification and validation walkthrough of behavioral model. One of the rules is: all _______________ contained in a behavior state machine must be associated with a message being sent on a sequence and communication diagram, and it must be classified as a (C)reate, (U)pdate, or (D)elete message in a CRUDE matrix.	messages	incorrect	behaviors	incorrect	transitions	correct	associations	incorrect	dependences	incorrect	
TF	 Modeling the real world in behavioral models is relatively easy.	false
TF	 As behavioral models are developed, it is likely that the use cases and structural models will have to be modified.	true
TF	 Each object can both send and receive messages.	true
TF	 A sequence diagram can only be drawn to represent a single scenario in a use case.	false
TF	 Actors and objects are placed on a sequence diagram in no particular order.	true
TF	 The destruction of temporary objects is shown on sequence diagrams with an X at the end of the lifeline.	true
TF	 When an object sends a message to itself, it is called self-messaging.	false
TF	 It is possible for an object to create another object, resulting in the message going directly to the object, not its lifeline.	true
TF	 If you are interested in the time ordering of the messages in a system, you should use a communication diagram.	false
TF	 Both the communication diagram and the sequence diagram can show return messages.	false
TF	 A message with the information [a Student exists] will be sent only when this condition is true.	true
TF	 The first step in drawing a communication diagram is to identify which objects and associations between the objects participate in the communication.	false
TF	 In a CRUD matrix, C represents Create.	true
TF	 When creating a CRUD matrix, you should use the letter U to represent Underline.	false
TF	 CRUD matrices are created by creating a matrix that lists the classes across the top and down the side.	true
TF	 Conditions on conditional messages in communication diagrams are placed in [ ] symbols.	true
TF	 Adding messages is the last step in building a communication diagram?	false
TF	 If a class represents only temporary objects, then there should be a D in the column of the CRUD matrix.	true
TF	 CRUD matrices are useful in the step “Set the Context” of building a collaboration diagram?	false
TF	 Events are the triggers that cause an object to move from one state to another.	true
TF	 A guard condition is a Boolean expression, which allows a transition to occur only if a condition is satisfied.	true
TF	 The following symbol represents the destruction of a temporary object in a sequence diagram.	true
TF	 An execution occurrence in a sequence diagram denotes when an object is sending or receiving messages.	true
TF	 An execution occurrence in a sequence diagram is represented using thick dashed lines with arrows that are placed on top of the life lines.	false
TF	 Return messages in a sequence diagram are often shown using dashed lines with arrows labeled with the return value.	true
TF	 One of the guidelines for creating sequence diagram is: Place the initiator of the scenario on the right of diagram.	false
TF	 The communication diagram is used for modeling process flow.	false
TF	 Only create behavioral state machine for “complex” objects.	true
TF	 Using detail and descriptive names for states when creating behavioral state machine.	false
TF	 Every actor and object included on a sequence diagram must be included as an actor and an object on a communication diagram, and vice versa.	true
TF	 If there is a message on the sequence diagram, there must be an association on the communications diagram, and vice versa.	true
TF	 Some entries in a CRUDE matrix does not imply a message being sent from an actor or object to another actor or object.	false
TF	 System analysts use behavioral models to depict the internal structural or static view of an information system.	false
TF	 System analysts use structural models to depict the internal structural or static view of an information system.	true
SR	 Describe sequence diagrams.	Sequence diagrams are one of the types of interaction diagrams (the other being communication diagrams). These diagrams show the objects that participate in a use case and also the time-based ordering of the messages that pass between those objects over time for a single use case. A sequence diagram is a dynamic model that shows explicit sequence of messages between objects in a defined interaction. A sequence diagram can be a generic diagrams which shows all possible scenarios for a given use case or an instance sequence diagram which depicts a single scenario within the use case. Different components of a sequence diagram include actors, objects, lifelines, messages, execution occurrences, and frames.
SR	 Describe communication diagrams.	Communication diagrams are also a type of interaction diagrams. These diagrams are essentially object diagrams that show message passing relationships instead of associations. These diagrams help you see the pattern of activity that occurs over a set of collaborating classes. Unlike sequence diagrams, they are unable to indicate time-ordering of messages. Primary components of a communication diagram include actors, objects, and messages.
SR	 What is a sequence diagram used for? Why would an analyst choose a sequence diagram over a communication diagram?	A sequence diagram is an interaction diagram (as is the communication diagram) that looks at the time-based order of the messages among the objects in the use case. Sequence diagrams are constructed by placing the objects across the top of the diagram, and drawing the messages from lifeline to lifeline, from top to bottom to reflect the time-based order of the messages. Communication diagrams are essentially object diagrams that show message passing relationships instead of associations. These diagrams help you see the pattern of activity that occurs over a set of collaborating classes. Unlike sequence diagrams, they are unable to indicate time-ordering of messages. An analyst would choose to draw a sequence diagram if this time-based order is important to the analysis of the use case under study.
SR	 When drawing a sequence diagram, the analyst uses lifelines and a symbol to represent the execution occurrence. It is also possible for an object to be destroyed at some point in time. Explain these three concepts – what is a lifeline, what does the execution occurrence mean, and how it is possible that an object can be destroyed in a use case. Show the diagramming symbols used to represent each of these concepts.	A lifeline extends vertically down from the object, representing literally its life in the system. Most objects have an unlimited life in the use case, so there is nothing that denotes an end to its life (obviously it ends at the end of the diagram). The lifeline is drawn as a dashed vertical line.
SR	 List the steps that an analyst should go through to build a sequence diagram.	
SR	 How does a communication diagram differ from a sequence diagram? Why would an analyst choose to draw a communication diagram?	A communication diagram emphasizes the flow of messages through a set of objects, while the sequence diagram focuses on the time ordering of the messages that are being passed. If the focus of the analyst is on understanding how a set of collaborating objects interact with one another, then a communication diagram is more appropriate. If the time sequence of the message were of interest to the analyst, then he or she would create a sequence diagram.
SR	 Identify the steps that an analyst would follow in building a communication diagram.	
SR	 What does the acronym CRUD stand for? Why would an analyst create a CRUD matrix during his analysis?	CRUD stands for Create, Read or Reference, Update, and Delete. These are the four possible interactions between classes in a system. An analyst would create a CRUD matrix to help identify potential collaborations while building a communication diagram. (Step 2 of building a communication diagram). CRUD matrix clearly identifies how objects create, reference, modify and delete other objects.
SR	 When looking at a CRUD matrix, why would it be important to see “D” in a column for a temporary object, or to not see “D” or “U” in a column for objects in a data warehouse?	D represents delete, and U represents update. A temporary object is supposed to disappear at some point in the life of the system; if there were no D in the CRUD matrix, then the analyst failed to accurately model that particular object.
SR	 Think of an employee object. What are several of the possible states that that object may have over time? Which of these states would be the initial state? Which would be the final state?	
SR	 Explain the term transition.	A transition is a relationship that represents the movement of an object from one state to another. Some state transitions are conditional. Such conditional transitions are associated with a guard condition. A guard condition is a Boolean expression that includes attribute values, and it allows a state transition to occur only if the condition is true. An object moves from one state to another based on the outcome of an action that is triggered by an event.
SR	 Explain the terms event, action and activity.	An event is something that takes place at a certain point in time and changes value(s) that describe an object. This in turn causes a change in the state of the object. Examples of events include a condition becoming true, a receipt of a call fro a method by an object, and the passage of a designated period of time. An action is an atomic, non-decomposable process that cannot be interrupted. Actions are often modeled as if they are completed in zero time, and they are associated with a transition. An activity is a non-atomic, decomposable process that can be interrupted. Activities take a long period of time to complete, they can be started or stopped by actions, and they are associated with states.
SR	 How are guard conditions shown on a behavioral state machine?	A guard condition is a Boolean expression that includes attribute values, which allows a transition to occur only if the condition is true.
SR	 What kinds of events can lead to state transitions on a behavioral state machine?	In the parlance of behavioral state machines, every event leads to a state transition. This is because events are defined as anything that changes a value which in turn describes the state of the behavioral state machine. In other words, transitions occur only as the result of an event. Specific types of events are as follows.
MC	 To avoid the classic design mistake of “reducing the design time,” the analyst should _____.	increase the schedule to include learning time	incorrect	move proposed changes into future versions	incorrect	not switch or upgrade unless there is a compelling need for specific features	incorrect	not use a design tool that appears too good to be true	incorrect	use timeboxing	correct	
MC	 To avoid the classic design mistake of “feature creep,” the analyst should _____.	not switch or upgrade unless there is a compelling need for specific features	incorrect	increase the schedule to include learning time	incorrect	move proposed changes into future versions	incorrect	not use a design tool that appears too good to be true	incorrect	use rapid application development techniques or timeboxing	correct	
MC	 When an analyst discovers that a set of classes have a similar set of attributes and methods, it may make sense to _____ out the similarities into a separate class.	refine	incorrect	abstract	incorrect	factor	correct	partition	incorrect	separate	incorrect	
MC	 A(n) _____ is the equivalent to a subsystem.	collaboration	incorrect	partition	correct	layer	incorrect	factor	incorrect	abstraction	incorrect	
MC	 The _____ layer contains, among other things, the classes that represent the fundamental data types.	problem domain	incorrect	system architecture	incorrect	human-computer interaction	incorrect	data management	incorrect	foundation	correct	
MC	 The _____ layer addresses how the software will execute on specific computers and networks.	foundation	incorrect	system architecture	incorrect	human-computer interaction	incorrect	data management	incorrect	problem domain	correct	
MC	 The layer that keeps the user interface implementation separate from the application or problem domain classes is the _____ layer.	foundation	incorrect	system architecture	incorrect	human-computer interaction	correct	data management	incorrect	problem domain	incorrect	
MC	 The _____ layer addresses the issues involving the persistence of the objects contained in the system.	foundation	incorrect	system architecture	incorrect	human-computer interaction	incorrect	data management	correct	problem domain	incorrect	
MC	 Which of the following is not a fundamental way to approach the creation of a new information system?	develop a custom application in-house	incorrect	rely on an external vendor to build the system	incorrect	purchase a software package and customize it	incorrect	rely on end-users to develop it themselves	correct	all of these are ways to create new information systems	incorrect	
MC	 To avoid the classic design mistake of “silver bullet syndrome,” the analyst should _____.	increase the schedule to include learning time	incorrect	move proposed changes into future versions	incorrect	not switch or upgrade development tools unless there is a compelling need	incorrect	not use a design tool that appears too good to be true	correct	use rapid application development techniques or timeboxing	incorrect	
MC	 There are three methods to create a new system. They are _____.	buy a package, external vender, external service provider	incorrect	develop custom application in-house, external service provider, and external vender	incorrect	external service provider, rely on a developer, and external vender	incorrect	in-house custom application, buy a package, and external vender	correct	in-house custom application, external service provider, and external vender	incorrect	
MC	 The following are all classic design mistakes EXCEPT _____.	feature creep	incorrect	including design time	correct	reducing design time	incorrect	silver bullet syndrome	incorrect	switching tools in mid-project	incorrect	
MC	 The following are all strengths of a custom development design strategy EXCEPT _____.	builds technical skills	incorrect	greater creativity	incorrect	greater flexibility	incorrect	lower risk	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 The following are all strengths of a packaged software design strategy EXCEPT _____.	it may be bought and installed in a short time	incorrect	many business needs are not unique	incorrect	the package is already tested and generally proven to work	incorrect	there is an exact match of functionality to requirements	correct	none of these	incorrect	
MC	 An advantage of custom development is that the organization can _____.	accept functionality that is not a perfect fit	incorrect	build technical skills and functional knowledge	correct	install in a short period of time	incorrect	remove all risk from the project	incorrect	save money on the purchase	incorrect	
MC	 An advantage of purchasing packaged software is that the organization can _____.	accept functionality that is not a perfect fit	incorrect	build technical skills and functional knowledge	incorrect	have developers climb the knowledge ladder	incorrect	make strategic changes during implementation	incorrect	save money on the purchase	correct	
MC	 A disadvantage of purchasing packaged software is that the organization may _____.	accept functionality that is not a perfect fit	correct	build technical skills and functional knowledge	incorrect	make strategic changes during implementation	incorrect	remove all risk from the project	incorrect	save money on the purchase	incorrect	
MC	 The process of building new systems by combining packaged software, existing legacy systems, and new software written to integrate everything together is called _____.	customization	incorrect	formal methodology	incorrect	outsourcing	incorrect	systems integration	correct	workaround	incorrect	
MC	 Manipulating certain parameters to refine the way features work in a software package is called _____.	a workaround	incorrect	adjustment	incorrect	customization	correct	feature adjustability	incorrect	parameterizing	incorrect	
MC	 The decision on which design strategy to use depends on _____.	how unique the business need is	incorrect	the expertise of the project manager	incorrect	the urgency of the project	incorrect	the amount of in-house experience	incorrect	all of these	correct	
MC	 A(n) ______ matrix can be used to organize the pros and cons of the design alternatives so that the best solution will be chosen in the end.	alternative	correct	cost-benefit	incorrect	feasibility	incorrect	design	incorrect	evaluation	incorrect	
MC	 Which one in the following is a development strategy?	Rational Unified development	incorrect	offshore development	incorrect	packaged software	correct	Agile development	incorrect	Rapid prototyping	incorrect	
MC	 Which one in the following is NOT a factor for selecting a design strategy?	Business need	incorrect	In-house experience	incorrect	Project skills	incorrect	Time frame	incorrect	Software quality	correct	
MC	 Which one in the following is NOT a layer of a software architecture?	Foundation	incorrect	Problem Domain	incorrect	Data management	incorrect	Data structure	correct	Human-computer Interface	incorrect	
MC	 Which the following class should be designed in Foundation layer?	Date	correct	DataInputStream	incorrect	Button	incorrect	Studnent	incorrect	URLConnection	incorrect	
MC	 In order to aid project team to make a decision of an acquisition, they employ several approaches to gather additional information. The document that solicits a formal proposal from a potential vendor, developer, or service provider is called _________	RFI	incorrect	RFQ	incorrect	RFP	correct	RFC	incorrect	RFD	incorrect	
TF	 The purpose of the design phase is to create a blueprint for the new system.	true
TF	 The layer that would include the classes that would interact with middleware applications is the physical architecture layer.	true
TF	 A package diagram is a class diagram that shows only packages and classes.	false
TF	 There are three design strategies: 1) developing a custom application in-house, 2) hiring a consultant, and 3) relying on an external vendor, developer, or service provider to build the system.	false
TF	 Custom development allows developers to be flexible and creative in the way they solve business problems.	true
TF	 It is much less efficient to buy packaged software that has already been created, tested, and proven than to build a system from scratch.	false
TF	 An object wrapper creates an application program interface (API) to a legacy system, enabling object-oriented systems to interact with it.	true
TF	 Some benefits of outsourcing are that the service provider may be more experienced in the technology that would greatly benefit your organization and may have more experienced programmers.	true
TF	 There are three primary types of outsourcing contracts: 1) time and arrangements, 2) variable-price, and 3) value added.	false
TF	 Pirate Adventures, Inc., a company that owns and operates hotels in tropical locations, is interested in replacing the 15-year-old room reservation system in all of its hotels. Custom development would be the best design strategy.	false
TF	 Max has been a project manager for 10 years and is considered one of the best in his department of well qualified IS professionals. The approval committee is considering the approval of a new unique Internet system that could possibly catapult the firm ahead of all of the competition. Buying a packaged system would be the best design strategy.	false
TF	 It can be much more efficient to buy programs that have already been created, tested, and proven, and a packaged software system can be bought and installed in a relatively short period of time compared with a custom system.	true
TF	 Many project teams believe that packaged software is the best way to create a system because they have complete control over the way the system looks and functions, and they can be flexible and creative in the way they solve business problems.	false
TF	 Enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications are small single-function software packages that are inexpensive and easy to install and have only minor problems and fast, easily recognizable benefits.	false
TF	 The three primary types of contracts that can be drawn to control the outsourcing deal are (1) a time and arrangements contract, (2) a fixed-price contract, and (3) a value-added contract.	true
TF	 Custom development of software is usually the best strategy for common business needs, particularly when the business need is not unique and does not have special requirements.	false
TF	 Custom applications require excellent project management and a proven methodology, and the project team should choose to develop a custom application only if it is certain that the underlying coordination and control mechanisms will be in place.	true
TF	 If in-house experience exists for all the functional and technical needs of the new system, it will be easier to outsource the building of the system, because the company employees with those skills will be able to quickly learn the new system with very little training.	false
TF	 Object-oriented systems can send messages to a legacy system through the use of a package wrapper.	false
TF	 The design strategy that would be most logical to a firm with a very limited amount of in-house IS expertise is allow end-users to create the system.	false
TF	 A company adopting an enterprise resource planning (ERP) application, has adopted the strategy of outsourcing.	false
TF	 A workaround is a custom-built add-on program that interfaces with the packaged application to handle special needs.	true
TF	 When using the packaged software design strategy, substantial time can be saved because the project team no longer has to spend time defining the requirements of the new system.	false
TF	 Time and arrangements types of outsourcing contracts would be preferred when the client and the outsourcer have difficulty specifying the work required to complete the project.	true
TF	 A disadvantage of outsourcing the application development process is that the organization may lose control over confidential information.	true
TF	 As many as 70% of companies with IT budgets over $5 million are currently outsourcing development of systems.	false
TF	 An advantage of outsourcing the application development process is that the organization may acquire technical skills and functional knowledge from the vendor.	true
TF	 Outsourcing eliminates all risks from the project.	false
TF	 A value added contract provides for flexibility, but may result in a larger than expected bill.	false
TF	 A fixed price contract provides for a stable customer price, but requirements will be well defined by the outsourcer at the beginning of the contract period.	true
TF	 A value added contract that is gaining in popularity provides for the outsourcer to gain a percentage of the completed systems benefits.	true
TF	 When the business need is unique and the process is critical to the business, the most appropriate development strategy is packaged software.	false
TF	 Packaged software is preferred when the business need is common and time is a constraining factor?	true
TF	 When the project skills are not strategic but they do exist in-house and the time frame is short, the most appropriate development strategy is packaged software.	true
TF	 When selecting a design strategy an organization should consider project management experience, project skills, functional skill development, time frame, costs, and flexibility.	false
TF	 Seng would like the opportunity to increase the experience level of her IS staff by having them analyze and design a new web-based distribution system. The skills learned from this project may help with future strategic applications. Since the time period for the project is very flexible and this is a somewhat unique business need, Michelle has decided to use packaged software for this project.	false
TF	 Alex would like to complete this development project quickly so that the IS department may move onto more strategic needs. He has assigned Joan to coordinate the project because she worked recently with a local vendor and has an established relationship. Michael has decided to use package software for this project.	true
TF	 When the timeframe for implementation is short, it is best to consider custom development.	false
TF	 An alternative matrix combines several feasibility analyses into one table so that the pros and cons of alternatives can be easily compared.	true
TF	 A request for information is used to solicit proposals from vendors.	true
TF	 Design models refine analysis models by adding details from the solution domain.	true
TF	 In the design phase we address the functional requirements.	false
TF	 Every sequence diagram must be associated to a use case in the use-case diagram.	true
TF	 The attributes that change in a behavioral state machine must appear in the object attribute list.	true
TF	 Class like Date (dealing with date and time) should be considered in the layer Foundation.	true
TF	 Class such as URLConnection (dealing with URL connections) should be handled in the layer Data Management.	false
TF	 MVC is an example of layered design of software architecture.	true
TF	 The physical architecture layer addresses how the software will execute on specific computers and networks.	true
TF	 The outsourcing is the best design strategy for every project.	false
TF	 In-house experience is not a factor to be considered for selecting a design strategy since a company is always able to hire experienced developers.	false
TF	 Package diagrams cannot be verified or validated since they are too general.	false
TF	 RFP, RFI and RFQ all could be used by project teams to collect information for making acquisition decision.	true
SR	 Describe the custom development design strategy. Discuss its advantages and disadvantages.	During custom development the project team actually builds the new system from scratch. Advantages to custom development include control over the way the system looks and functions, flexibility and creativity in the way the business problem is solved; and the ability to build technical and functional knowledge within the company. Disadvantages to custom development include factors such as the use of an already over committed IS staff, a fully trained and experienced staff must already be in place before attempting custom development, and the risks (testing and recreating the wheel) associated with building a system from the ground up.
SR	 Describe the package system design strategy. Discuss its advantages and disadvantages.	Packaged software is the purchase of software for a non-unique business need. Advantages for buying packaged software include efficiency (the programs are already created, tested, and proven), quick installation, and the expertise and experience from the vendor who created the software. Disadvantages of packaged software include the functionality of the system is inflexible and may not be a perfect fit, and the new software package may not integrate with existing legacy software.
SR	 Describe the outsourcing design strategy. Discuss its advantages and disadvantages.	Outsourcing is when an external vendor, developer, or service provider is hired to create the system. This type of development strategy has increased in popularity recently. Advantages of outsourcing include factors such as the outsourcer may have more experience, technology, and resources. Outsourcing is often seen as adding value to the organization instead of reducing costs. A disadvantage to outsourcing is that the outsourcer gains the knowledge of building the new system and the customer does not.
SR	 Explain how the “business need” factor influences the selection of a design strategy for a project.	There are five characteristics of any design strategy. They are business need, in-house experience, project skills, project management, and the time frame.
SR	 Explain how the “in-house experience” factor influences the selection of a design strategy for a project.	The availability of in-house experience for all functional and technical needs is important. A packaged system is an alternative for organizations that do not have in-house technical experience. Outsourcing is a way to bring outside functional or technical experience into the organization that is missing in-house, but outsourcing does not build experience for the in-house staff.
SR	 Explain how the factor “project skills” influences the selection of a design strategy for a project.	Improving technical and functional project skills of in-house employees may be a strategic process within an organization. Custom development is good if an organization wishes to build in-house skills. Purchasing packaged software or outsourcing may be done if building skills is not strategic.
SR	 Explain how the “project management” factor influences the selection of a design strategy for a project.	Managing a custom developed system requires excellent in-house project management skills. Packaged software requires a project manager who can coordinate a vendor’s efforts. Outsourcing requires a highly skilled project manager at the level of the organization that matches the scope of the outsourcing deal.
SR	 Explain how the “time frame” factor influences the selection of a design strategy for a project.	The time frame for a project is an important characteristic. Custom development requires a very flexible time frame. It normally takes longer than expected. A packaged system can be implemented in a shorter time frame. Outsourcing may be completed in a flexible or short period depending on the size and scope.
SR	 Kiki, the marketing manager, and Joan, the director of information systems, have just returned from a conference on state-of-the art technology for marketing management. Each day after viewing vendor presentations and listening to other marketing managers discuss “what they don’t have and what they really need,” Kiki and Joan would brain storm ideas and record them in Joan’s laptop. On the flight home, Joan, a successful project manager, and Kiki, an experienced marketing professional, recognize that they have the foundation for a one-of-a-kind marketing management system that would improve the decisions the marketing staff must make. This new system could possibly change the way their primary products are marketed. In the process, this new system could save the company millions of dollars and possibly make millions more. Joan has an expert IS staff that is just completing a production management system. They are always interested in learning new technology and often request additional training. No new projects have been approved by the steering committee. What would you recommend Kiki and Joan do? Include in your discussion the design strategy selection process and the important characteristics that apply to the strategy selected.	I would recommend that Kiki and Joan make a formal request for a new marketing management system to the steering committee.
SR	 Mariana, the IS manager, has just received a note from the accounting department stating that they wish a new purchasing system could be placed on the priority list. The chief accounting officer (CAO) has just learned that three of their competitors have new purchasing systems. Since purchasing has not been considered a key business function in the past, the CAO is concerned that his department lacks the functional expertise to implement a new purchasing system. She feels that purchasing is becoming a strategic necessity for the company and a new system should be in place by this time next year. The CAO has managed the automation of numerous accounting functions, such as the purchase of a combined general ledger with accounts receivable and accounts payable, the custom development of a just-in-time inventory control system, and the management of a financial projections and stock funds project that was contracted to an outside vendor. What would you recommend Mariana do? Include in your discussion the design strategy selection process and the important characteristics that apply to the strategy selected.	Mariana should place a new purchasing system on the priority list if the funds are available to outsource the project. The reasons for outsourcing are quite clear. The business need is not unique, common to the business, or critical to the company. The accounting department lacks functional experience in the purchasing process (no mention is made of technical experience). The CAO has a vast amount of project management experience with many different types of oversight expertise, one of which was managing a project that was contracted to an outside vendor. The purchasing process is becoming more of a strategic concern of the organization and the decision to include this project on the priority list should be a strategic one. Finally, the time frame is about a year, which is short but flexible. All of the strategic characteristics point toward outsourcing as the type of development strategy.
SR	 Outsourcing can be a risky strategy to use when developing new information systems. Discuss ways to improve the likelihood of a successful outsourcing agreement.	First, select the outsourcer carefully. Find an outsourcer with whom you can establish a partnership arrangement; both sides should benefit from the contract. Second, be very clear on the requirements you have before signing the contract. Don't outsource what you don't understand. Third, assign someone to manage the outsourcing relationship. Don't assume it will maintain itself. Keep the line of communication open between you and your outsourcer. Finally, develop a contract that emphasizes flexible requirements, long-term relationships, and short-term contracts.
SR	 What is the purpose of an alternatives matrix? What is the typical content? How will this tool be used by a project team in the context of design strategy selection?	An alternatives matrix organizes the pros and cons of the design alternatives so that the best solution will be chosen in the end. On one side of the matrix, technical, budget, and organizational feasibility is listed, along with the pros and cons of each alternative plus any other pertinent information. The various system candidates are listed along the top of the matrix. In each cell of the grid, detailed information on each alternative is inserted. The alternatives matrix provides a concise representation of the relevant issues on each option in an easily compared format. The team may just use it to facilitate discussion. Or, the team may assign weights to each of the factors, and then score each alternative on each factor, enabling them to compute a weighted average score for each alternative. This quantification may help the team identify the alternative that provides the best overall 'package' of feasibility.
SR	 Briefly describe the five different software layers.	The foundation layer contains classes that are necessary for any object-oriented application to exist, such as fundamental data types, data structures, and abstractions.
SR	 Describe the five-step process for creating package diagrams.	First, set the context for the package diagram. Second, cluster the classes together into partitions based on the relationships that the classes share. Third, place the clustered classes together in a partition and model the partitions as packages. Fourth, identify the dependency relationships among the packages. Fifth, place the dependency relationships on the evolved package diagram.
SR	 What is an “object wrapper” and how can one be used to help integrate systems?	An object wrapper is an object that wraps around a legacy system, enabling an object-oriented system to send messages to the legacy system. Object wrappers create an application program interface (API) to the legacy system. This allows a firm to retain their investment in their legacy systems while integrating them with their object-oriented systems.
SR	 Give some example classes that can appear on each of the layer of software architecture.	Answers will vary. Some suggestions are below
SR	 What is the purpose of the different layers?	To successfully evolve the analysis model of the system into a design model of the system, we must add the system environment information. One useful way to do this, without overloading the developer, is to use layers.
